What we all know is that earnings
estimates continue [music] to rip
higher.
>> 2026 earnings are going to be okay.
>> The chip names have done a great deal of
the heavy lifting.
>> If we see a broadening, that would be a
healthy sign in this market.
>> We think there's probably [music] more
weakness coming through the summer
months.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
[music] and An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday, more fuel for the bulls.
Equity futures pushing Ka Micron
crushing guest estimates [music] as Wall
Street banks are getting a green light
to boost payouts. Crude is declining,
wiping out a major wartime rally heading
into the latest [music] read on
inflation.
>> Will that be enough to dampen the
enthusiasm that we're seeing in so many
parts of US equity [music] markets as
well as certain parts of the economy?
And that's emphasized by what we saw
from the stress tests as well as micron
earnings. Yes, on one hand it is
disinflationary that oil prices are
coming down. [music] Still, core PCE is
set to come in at 4.1% which would be
the highest since [music] April of 2023.
And some of the contracts that are
leading to these elevated prices are
locked in for the next 5 years. So it
doesn't seem like that is going to be
anytime soon.
>> Pricing power [music] margins. Check out
Micron this morning. 85% margins over at
that company. If anyone was doubting
just how much pricing [music] power they
actually had, well, they're not having a
good day today because ultimately they
proved all doubters wrong and they came
in with a $50 billion of revenue in
[music] the first uh in the fiscal
fourth quarter. That compares to $43.2
billion. When you start beating by $7
billion, [music] the uh the net
expectations for some of the uh some of
the net margins was far below that 85%.
They can control a market. They can lock
people in for the next [music] 5 years.
they can get upfront payments and still
they're running out of uh chips to sell.
85% for gross margins [music] is insane.
It not only beat their own expectations,
it also beat what they did last quarter.
A year ago, 39% that's how much they
were up and it's also beat Nvidia. It's
starting to feel like Micron maybe has a
little bit of the new new cool kid on
the block, the new Nvidia of the street.
>> Stock is up in a pre-market by 16%.
[music] Good news there for the banks.
Good news there for crude. Good news
there. Check out crude WTI Brent this
morning. WTI [music] in the 60s 69 Brent
72 wiping out the wartime rally. A
[music] 60 plus% move at one point. All
gone.
>> All gone. So basically we are back to
[music] pre-wall levels. At the same
time the AI trade is continuing and that
is why there's so much positivity and
momentum. You know Jim Reed of Deuts
Bank put this in one of his notes. It's
not just the fact that oil keeps moving.
It's the fact there's a lot of officials
coming [music] out. The president this
week had said this and a number of other
individuals, Marco Rubio, Secretary of
State, [music] individuals in the Gulf
said also they don't see Iran having a
tolling right now. They're not tolling
for these vessels [music] which
basically everyone is starting to feel
like maybe we are somewhat going back to
normal when it comes to the straight of
>> so I think this is good news but there's
always something to worry about. Thank
you to Sllock over at Apollo with this
quote. The narrative in markets is
changing from lower oil prices mean
lower inflation to lower oil prices mean
more demand in an already overheating
economy which means higher inflation.
[music]
>> Yeah, you're even hearing this over at
the ECB. Ironically enough, Isabel
Schnaval coming out and saying we can't
let up our vigilance on inflation even
if oil prices are coming down. This
[music] as the ECB the ECB's Christine
Lagard at least has a different tone.
Nonetheless, this is sort of the
pushpull of markets right now. On one
hand, you've got Micron able to charge
[music] whatever they want for people
who can't get enough of their uh memory
chips and on the other hand, yes, you
have one disinflationary input from oil
prices. How does this come out? How do
people see core PCE? How many people are
going to say we're seeing peak
acceleration in [music] inflation versus
the people saying, "Hold on a second.
It's services sectors. It's also the
rare earth metals and a whole host of
other components."
>> Apparently, things are so good, it's
bad. Equity futures this morning up by
3/4 of 1%. my kind of thinking
>> on the S&P 500. Coming up this hour,
Sebastian Paige of Tro Price as tech
pounces back. Terry Haynes of Pangia
Policy as President Trump clashes with
Republican senators and Angela Zeno of
CFR as Micron is breathing new life into
the AI trade. We begin this hour with
stocks pushing higher following a boost
from Micron's blowout earnings report.
Sebastian Page of Tro Price writing, "AI
is an expanding theme from GPUs to other
bottlenecks along the data center supply
chain as Buzz Lightyear said to infinity
and beyond." Sebastian joins us now for
more. Seb, welcome back to the program,
buddy. You just saying stay on, grip
tight, keep riding this ball.
>> John, when I wrote my notes, I didn't
think you'd pick up on the Buzz
Lightyear quote. I'm going to be honest.
We have an expanding trade from
bottlenecks
to, you know, more and more bottlenecks.
You're looking at cooling, at
electrification,
at aerospace, at gas turbines. We're
invested in those bottlenecks. We think
it's a trade that has legs. Look, the AI
buildout, a lot of people mentioned
those forecasts on your show, but we're
looking at three trillion by 2028.
So, it's a trade and it's going to
continue to go in my mind. The key
question right now is when is this going
to show in AI users margins? Now we have
300 analysts on our platform. I read
their notes, but now I I use AI to read
their notes and I ask AI, where are we
seeing companies in our own proprietary
research that are increasing their
margins because they're using AI? Now,
I've seen estimates out there, John,
that are, I think, exaggerated, but
anecdotally, we're starting to see this
as well in the users of AI. This will be
the next leg. So I think the technology
revolution will continue. I'm conscious
as I say this I sound a little bit like
Dan Ies but yeah this we're long US
large cap growth stocks.
>> So I'll push back just a little bit and
I'll give you the alternative view on
things Seb where the economics of all of
this get a little bit complicated. So
the cost to build our capacity is
increasing. We can see that evidenced by
some of the margins at some of these
companies at a time when the enduser
demand is getting a little bit fragile
with regards to pricing overall and
they're rationing spending on AI. How's
that going to make sense going forward?
What do we need to rationalize here?
>> Look, as long as the products keep
improving and they are, there is
tremendous demand for it. It looks to me
like we're still scratching the surface
on demand and usage of AI. And by the
way, John, I completely take the point
that this spending is gigantic and free
cash flows are coming down really fast
for a lot of the hyperscalers.
But, you know, if you think about it,
the price earnings on the Russell 1000
growth, we were in the 30 range. We
peaked at 30 several times over the last
five years. John, we're at 22. So there
is, you know, trust the market. There is
an adjustment here that's been made. Um,
you know, this is this is in the bottom
for Russell 1000 growth valuation. This
is in the bottom 30% of the last 10-year
range. You can also play AI bottlenecks,
by the way, in other areas. Uh, you can
also play them in small and midcap,
which were long, too. We have this
barbell between US large cap growth and
small and midcap. We're talking about
the golden component. Once you have a
component that becomes a part just a
bottleneck, a part of that
electrification, power supply, data
center, whatever it is, your company
stock goes vertical. Also, emerging
markets, a lot of people mention this on
surveillance. Emerging markets are
becoming part of that trade. So, yeah, I
mean it's not it's it's it's a position
you need to balance. You need to
diversify the risk in the portfolio. for
example, I still think there's inflation
risk in the portfolio and at some point
that becomes part of the, you know,
supplying the energy to AI. That becomes
part of the the picture.
>> We'll pick up on that in just one
second. Seb, uh, you're talking about
trying to race to find the next
bottleneck where you can see stocks go
vertical akin to what we're seeing with
Micron this morning. I just wonder if
people truly are understanding or if
it's a healthy technical to just have a
rolling ball of cash. On one hand,
people are chasing who has pricing
power. On the other hand, Google shares
down 8% this month. Microsoft poised for
its worst monthly loss going back to
2008 of 19% losses. The payers of this
bill are getting penalized. At what
point is that a warning sign?
>> I mean, it is absolutely, Lisa. You have
winners and losers. And this is why
skilled active management and
fundamental research is working here.
You're going to have software companies
that are going to be disrupted, but
you're going to have companies that I
think increasingly the next leg of this
is along the bottlenecks to eventually
the handoff to the users that are going
to create real efficiency. I see it in
our company. We're creating efficiency.
We're improving our processes. It's
really that that's going to be the next
leg and that's what is going to uh keep
it going. And again I go back to the
fact that it's not you know a lot of
this increase in leverage and borrowing
and decrease in free cash flow margins a
lot of it has been adjusted in the price
uh 22 relative to the 30 range in prior
episodes over the last 5 years I think
is pretty good for Russell 1000 growth.
So, Seb, could you justify the
investment in further AI if the
borrowing costs were higher in the face
of inflation, in the face of some of
this acceleration that we're seeing in
other components and price components
that everyone's trying to chase?
>> Well, the reality is that this three
trillion in spending, a lot of it is
generating generated by companies that
still have a ton of cash. I don't like
the comparisons to the com bubble, but
we're nowhere near the level of
corporate leverage in aggregate that we
had. So yes, there is some borrowing,
but if you look at the metrics by
historical standards, it's not it's not
a very high level of leverage by
historical standards and there is
tremendous capital that's available as
we're seeing with IPOs and you know
those debt issuance. I think that there
is there is demand for the end product.
At the end of the day, that's what
really matters. People want to use it.
There are billions of users already.
They're just scratching the surface. I'm
doing roundts with investors and I
realize a lot of them, my peers, a lot
of them are just starting. It makes me
happy because I feel like we're really
ahead in how we're using agents and so
on in our investment process. But also
it makes me think that as long as the
demand for the end product is there,
people are willing to pay for it. We'll
go through ups and downs. We'll go
through episodes where tokens get more
expensive and people go to cheaper
models and so on. But the trend is our
friend here. 3 trillion spending by 28.
Again, Lisa, I didn't think I'd come in
this morning and sound like Dan Ies, but
we do have a long position in US large
cap growth. And you know, we do believe
in the AI bottlenecks and the expansion
of that trade. You also are concerned
that even with oil prices becoming lower
that you actually think there's still a
lot of inflation baked into the system.
Is the Fed potentially having to maybe
hike going to be an issue for where you
see the market going and your Dan Ies
bullishness this morning?
>> Yeah, look Marie, if we get like 25 base
points, 50 base points of hikes, I don't
think that's a big issue for markets. I
do think generally though inflation
right now is underestimated as a risk.
You had the Torstston SL quote earlier.
I would argue that he's right. I would
agree with that. Yes, oil prices are
coming back down really quickly. My view
is that there's pentup inflation. There
are lots of lags in inflation data and
in inflation itself. If you have from
fertilizer to food, from freight and
insurance to transportation to
industrial production to the final
goods, from fiscal stimulus to demand,
there's lots of lags that are working
their way through. By the way, the last
three months on the rolling basis, the
headline CPI is up 8% if you annualize
it. You're not supposed to analyze three
months, you know, it's noisy data, but
still 8%. But the shelter for the last
three months is 4.8%. There's also a
lagged effect here with prior rent
increases. Now, put all of this in
context of the fact that the break even
for the one-year horizon is 1.7% and the
one-year inflation swap is 2.2%. So, in
my mind, it's still an underestimated
risk, especially for the next 3 to 6
months. In the long run, yeah, we'll
normalize, but I think the market is
underpricing the inflation risk. I guess
we have a Brit this morning. We'll see.
I watch surveillance often with a 12 or
24-hour lag. And I I always I'm mindful
that some people come in and make
forecasts a few minutes before the data
release. I'm not going to make that. I'm
not going to I'm not going to do that
this morning. It's always interesting to
listen to it after the fact when you
know what happened. But as a general
trend, I'm not talking necessarily PCE,
maybe 4% this morning, but I as a
general trend, the inflation here is
underestimated by the market based on
the pricing you see in break evens and
inflation swaps.
>> Not enough to append this rally though,
Sav. It's good to see you. Sebastian
Page of Tro at least not for now. For
now, capex takers over spenders. We'll
catch up with Osen Quan of Wells Fargo
later this morning. That's his trade.
That's the trade that's worked. You
mentioned the hyperscalers, the likes of
Meta and Microsoft. Those stocks are in
a bare market. They've really struggled.
Micron is not a struggle. That is
surging this morning.
>> Even talking about the transfer of
wealth and right now the market is
embracing the transfer of wealth and
trying to look toward who has that
pricing power. Who has the next 85%
pricing power? I can give advice and I
will charge you something and ultimately
you know maybe I can make an 85% profit
margin.
>> 90% margins promo for you.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Obviously Micron up by 16 to 17%.
>> Just kidding. in the pre-market. Equity
futures right now up by 0.8% on the S&P
500 with an update on stories elsewhere
this morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Ronnie Quinn has more. Hey Vonnie,
>> good morning John. Backtoback
earthquakes devastating Venezuela. The
biggest quakes in the country's history
toppling buildings in Caracus, knocking
down power lines and damaging the
capital's main airport. At least 32
people have been confirmed dead and more
than 700 injured so far in the quakes.
All of the biggest US banks passing the
Fed's annual stress test, allowing them
to boost buybacks and dividends. The
exam, which is a result of the GFC,
assesses how 32 large lenders would
withstand a severe global shock among
scenarios. The Fed saying the results
underscore the strength of the banking
system.
Micron shares surging in the premarket.
The largest US maker of computer memory
chips giving a quarterly forecast that
easily topped Wall Street estimates
signaling an AI fueled growth run
remains strong. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonyie
in about 30 minutes time. Up next on a
program struggling to maintain a united
front.
>> We're very proud of the party. I don't
like a few people, but that's okay. I
think you know who they are. I'll give
you that information someday. But for
the most part, we have a really
wellunified party. Did someone call him
brother yesterday at this [music]
meeting?
>> Yes.
>> Okay. Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy can
translate all of that in just a moment.
Live from New York City this [music]
morning. Good morning.
Crushing [music] estimates 85% margins.
More on this name throughout the
program. Micron in the pre-market up by
17%. Here's the follow [music] through.
A snapshot of equities here in the US.
Equity futures pushing high on the S&P
500 up by 0.8. [music] Outperformance on
the NASDAQ up by 2.2%.
Under surveillance this morning, let's
head to Washington. Struggling to
maintain a united [music] front.
>> We're very proud of the party. We like
our leader. We like everybody really in
the room. I don't like a few people, but
that's okay. I think you know who they
are. But we I'll I'll give you I'll give
you that information someday. But for
the most part, we have a really well
ununified party.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
president showing some solidarity
[music] with GOP senators after a closed
door meeting devolved into a shouting
match on Capitol Hill. One senator
saying the president was quote mad as a
murder hornet. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
joins us now for the latest. Good
morning Tyler.
>> Hey John. Good morning. I mean to be a
fly on the wall for this closed-d dooror
contentious meeting yesterday between
President Trump and Senate Republicans.
There are really two issues at play
here. The first is that yesterday
President Trump abruptly cancelled this
signing ceremony for the recently passed
bipartisan housing bill which
Republicans want to campaign on. He says
he's not going to sign that legislation
until they put forward his voter ID act.
But at this point that doesn't really
seem like a plausible outcome. Senate
Republicans have been telling President
Trump for months that the votes are not
there. Though, House Speaker Mike
Johnson is headed towards the White
House later today. That's something to
watch as it appears they're going to try
to take some of these provisions and get
it through the partisan reconciliation
process, but it's not totally clear that
will even pass the budgetary standards.
The second issue is the one that you
mentioned that we just saw the Senate
rebuke President Trump over the conflict
in Iran with four Republicans crossing
party lines. that included Senator Bill
Cassidy, who recently lost his
re-election bid after failing to secure
President Trump's endorsement. He told
reporters that they got into a heated
exchange saying that they quote that he
quote lost his temper, but that he
matched President Trump's tone and
volume. John, still, it does appear some
progress actually might have been made.
Yesterday, Cassidy abruptly switched his
vote on a separate war powers resolution
after he received a briefing at the
White House. And so did Senator Ran Paul
who said that he understood President
Trump's argument in the room yesterday
that without a unified Congress the US
could lose leverage at the negotiating
table.
>> Tyler, appreciate the update. More from
Tyler throughout this morning live from
the nation's capital. Terry Haynes of
Pangia Policy joins us now for more.
Terry, welcome to the program. Is this
more than just about war heading into
the midterms?
>> Good morning, John. I think uh you know
you you know I think it's perfectly
normal that uh the the pot boils over
sometimes. Uh I think people would uh
hopefully not be surprised that
privately uh you know people talk to
each other pretty frankly in politics
and uh this certainly is the case today
particularly with people that the
president didn't support. Uh but the
through line is a couple of things. The
through line is it's uh it's not really
about the war so much as it is the you
know not tying the president's hands in
negotiations that that became very
clear. Uh and it's also about the path
forward which has a lot to do with uh
funding for the war. It has to do more
broadly with funding for defense of a
trillion and a half. And uh that's
really all that's on the table for the
rest of the year because regular
spending will be put off until after the
midterms. Terry though, is this just
normal getting things off your chest?
You have one senator saying that luckily
nobody got stabbed, Senator John
Kennedy, and he was a little nervous
that that they put out the metal
utensils instead of plastic ones. Trump
called Senator Cassidy a lunatic, and
that was the senator that kept
addressing Trump as brother. This feels
more than just airing some policy
debates.
Well, you know, it's uh as you all know,
it's Cassidy was not supported by Trump
and going in uh to his primary and
indeed lost. Uh the president's made a
decision that uh that what they're going
to do is do everything possible in the
midterms to stoke turnout. uh they made
the judgment, I'm not defending the
judgment, I'm just saying they made the
judgment that having somebody other than
Cassidy in the senatorial seat uh would
uh for for the election uh would drive
more turnout and they've done that in a
number of places. Texas, of course, is
another one. And uh yeah, so they're
focused on that fundamentally. U the
Senate is a co-equal branch of
government. Do I expect Senator Cassidy
and other disaffected senators uh to
like any of that? I don't. Uh, but you
know, this is a big boy game, too.
>> Terry, what's going on with the housing
bill? Housing was supposed to be a
national emergency for this
administration. They need to deliver
this before the midterm elections. It
has bipartisan support in Congress, as
Tyler mentioned. Yet, the president
won't sign it.
>> Well, the housing bill, you know, is is
bipartisan in Washington is a lot of
things. And one way is uh to get
bipartisanship is to make sure that very
little gets done. uh you know that
nobody thinks the housing bill is a uh
is a panacea or a uh or a one a huge
step forward. Uh but it is something
that's been hammered out over months.
It's something that both parties wanted
to do and to run on. Um and you know
there's there's kind of two
uh camps in Washington. One camp is you
know I want to run on a record so as
much as I have on the record as to of
achievement as is possible. The other is
kind of aspirational. you know, the uh
and that's that's the Save Act side of
this where, you know, Trump wants to
hammer people, wants the Save Act. He's
not going to get it, but of course that
also uh that also allows him to uh to
stoke turnout and hammer the other side.
So, you know, you've got people in
Washington that want to run on
achievement. Uh they're being denied
that, but on the substance, nobody
thinks this is a great leap forward. I
mean, the uh Wall Street Journal's been
editorializing against it for months.
Terry, who do you think is facing the
bigger internal fight heading into the
midterm elections, the Republicans or
the Democrats?
>> Um, yeah. Well, I don't think the de I
would say the Democrats, but uh you
know, the Democrats aren't really
fighting. You've got a situation where
uh the kind of the left progressive
socialist side of the party, which is
where the money and the energy has been
for a few years, is basically sweeping
centrists away. Uh, and that's going to
be a big problem for them in the
midterms because it's going to make it a
lot harder uh to go after the 40% or so
of of undecided voters or people that
don't really care about the ideology.
They just want results. Well, the big
reason why you you end up in kind of
this populist world that we're in now is
because for the last generation uh the
establishments in both parties haven't
really achieved very much and people are
really really tired of it. Uh so, you
know, I think the Republicans at the end
of the day are going to be quite united,
frankly, for a variety of reasons. I
mean, they've got uh redistricting
advantages. They've got money
advantages. Uh the war ending and oil
prices going down, of course, helps
them. Uh I think they've largely
equalized the turnout advantage. And on
top of that, you've got kind of what I
called yesterday, uh you know, the pin
the tail on the donkey, literally of who
the crazy party is. And by November,
what this is going to be about is who
the crazy party is. It's probably not
going to be the Republicans in a lot of
purple states.
>> Terry Haynes, thank you, sir. Terry
Haynes of Pangia Policy with the latest.
For establishment Democrats, it's
Operation Ostrich right now. Pretending
the New York primaries didn't happen.
That's what's sad about the spat with
the Republicans in the last 24 hours.
This shouldn't have been the headline.
Shouldn't have been the headline at all.
The headline should have been what
happened here in New York. The truth is
is that both parties right now are
facing a real fight for the heart of
that party. And yes, President Trump has
taken a lot of [music] that for the
Republicans. Underneath though, a lot of
disagreements. What's hilarious is you
have Senate Majority Leader Chuck
Schumer saying the election showed a
quote great unified [music] party. I
think it's quite the opposite.
>> Sure. Coming up on the program, Angelo
Zeno of CF as Micron breathes [music]
new life into the AI trade.
snapping a three-day losing streak on
the [music] S&P 500 hopefully a little
bit later this morning. Futures positive
by 0.8% following some really strong
[music] numbers from Micron. We'll get
to that in just a moment. On the NASDAQ,
there's your out performance. You know
the why. On the NASDAQ this morning,
futures up by 2.2%. Let's enter the bond
market. Twos, 10, and 30s. Nice rally
across the curve in yesterday's session.
Small bounce back up a single basis
point on 10 to 440. [music] Some curve
flattening, some bull flattening into
this market was a story last week. A
story again in the last 24 hours. The
flattest yield curve since spring of
last year at the close [music] as of
yesterday.
>> Yeah. And this comes as you see a
growing willingness at least perceived
this perception of this in markets of
Fed officials to hike rates in [music]
the face of what we're seeing. I go back
to what we were talking about yesterday.
How much is the equity market and the
bond market singing from the same himnil
given the fact that right now the bond
market's pricing in almost two full rate
hikes for this year while [music] stock
markets continue to uh move past it. How
predicated on the idea that maybe the
Fed is all talk and no action. How
predicated is the stock market rally on
that idea? Yeah, Sebastian page hero
price with us about 30 minutes ago.
Super bullish growth stocks in America
super bullish large caps said he sounded
like Dan Ies said that repeatedly and at
the same time he's worried about
inflation and the prospect of an upset
with regards to Fed rate hikes [music]
later this year. Can you hold those two
thoughts at the same time going into the
rest of this year? If you take a look
[music] at flows over the past week and
Bank of America put out a great tracker
citing EPF EPFR data. It shows that
people withdrew [music] significant
amount from US equities and put a lot of
money into US bonds. Right now people
are chasing the income that you can get
from bonds [music] when you see yields
going up particularly at the front end
and that is leading to a little bit of a
diminishing of the risk appetite around
the edges for the high-flying stocks.
[music] I mean does this continue? Is
this just a head fake? Does it really
matter? We'll continue discussing that.
>> [music]
>> break below 420 in the last 24 hours at
the front end of the yield curve. Let's
get to the moving crude. WTI and Brent
wiping out the wartime rally. Just
unreal [music]
to see WTI back in the 60s. 69 this
morning. Brent crude 72.
>> We're down [music] to 40% where we had
the peak highs when it came to the Iran
conflict. And that is because [music]
every single day we continues to see
good news of vessels actually being able
to traverse the straight of Hermoose.
[music] And things are looking like they
are slowly getting back to normal. I
don't want to be someone who puts there
just a ton of risk out there. But we
have to remember we are in the middle of
a 60-day [music]
ceasefire. We also need to take stock of
where we're going to be the end of
August. Does this just continue? Or
potentially if Trump's not getting what
he wants, do we go back to some sort of
kinetic fighting? [music] At the moment,
no one's thinking about post 60 days of
>> Nobody wants to think about that.
>> And the fact of the matter is [music]
barrels are moving and that's good news.
Prices down. Brent crude down by 1.3%
this morning as we count you down to the
open about three hours away from the
cash open with your morning movers.
[music] Yahhira has more. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. The stakes were high and Micron
delivered. Shares are soaring uh 17.5%
[music] in the pre-market after it
issued a blockbuster forecast and said
that gross margins jumped to [music]
nearly 85%
last quarter. Its CEO saying that
there's still no line of sight to supply
catching up [music] with demand. he
expects shortages to continue uh beyond
2027.
Another name helping to lift the chip
trade this morning is Qualcomm. Shares
are soaring 11.5 12% in the pre-market
after the company said that it sees $15
billion in annual AI data center sales
by 2029. It's a dramatic shift for a
company that made its name in a
supplying chips for [music] smartphones.
Now it's chasing the AI infrastructure
boom, saying that Meta will use its
[music] new data center processors. And
IBM out with some news just in the last
few moments. Shares are rising 4.2% in
the pre-market after it unveiled what it
says is [music] the world's tiniest AI
chip technology, a new sub 1 nanmter
design. It's still in the research
stage, but the breakthrough could
eventually lead to faster, [music]
more power efficient, smaller chips once
they become commercially available. John
>> Yara, thank you. That stock has had a
great run. We [music] add to that this
morning on our radar this morning. Our
top story, Micron shares surging in
pre-market trading. The chipmakers
earnings crushing guest estimates,
lifting the tech sector, and reigniting
the AI rally with demand for memory
showing no signs of slowing. That stock
is up by almost 18%. Elsewhere, Wall
Street's biggest banks boosting
dividends after passing the Fed's annual
stress test, giving billions back to
investors. All 32 banks tested, showing
they could withstand a hypothetical
economic downturn. And finally,
President Donald Trump going after big
oil.
>> It's Exon Mobile, it's Chevro,
it's uh Shell, it's U BP, it's a lot of
them. They're not reducing the prices
commensurate with what what's happening.
We are doing a big investigation on it.
>> The president ordering the DOJ to
investigate the company, saying gas
prices should be 225. The national
average right now holding just below $4
a barrel.
>> Look, we talked about this yesterday
about how this hearkens back to another
era under a different president where
there was a lot of job hunting of the
oil majors. I will say it highlights the
shifting alliances and allegiances right
now with President Trump and a number of
URSTW allies whether it's the oil majors
who previously were in the White House
talking about what's going on in
Venezuela talking about how much they
were pumping and the and the incredible
preeminence of US oil markets. also
Trump and BB Netanyahu at the same time
like there all these fissures at this
moment where it's operation get to
midterms and there are a couple of key
components in part large part getting
oil prices down
>> $4 a barrel I should say $4 a gallon
before anyone gets too excited but yeah
big spread between that and the 225 the
president's after
>> I don't think we've seen 225 since
January of 2019 so we're going way back
to where the president is trying to
think where gas prices should be the
issue is of course is that what you are
filling up right now in your car if you
were going out today and filling up your
car is oil that was purchased when the
premium was much higher. It takes a
little bit longer. There's going to be a
supply chain lag. But the fact of the
matter is gasoline prices are still
below $4 a gallon. I can I can't even
name on my hands the amount of people
who said to me Trump is going to take
out the Biden high of more than $5 a
gallon because of the conflict. And we
never got there.
>> Financial literacy to get in the way of
a good political argument down in
Washington DC.
>> Sorry, I forgot about that. regardless
of what party they're in.
>> That's we've seen repeatedly and it
clearly is in bold relief heading into
the midterms.
>> Let's get to that stock story. Micron
this morning shares surging in the
pre-market. The company's record
earnings signaling there's more AI
growth ahead. Angela Zenino of CFR
raising his price target on the stock to
1,500 writing the breadth of margin
expansion showcases that favorable
pricing dynamics extend beyond AI
specific applications. Angela joins us
now for more. Angelo, welcome to the
program. The number of the morning and
we talked about it repeatedly already is
85 85% margins. Andrew, the question
we've got to ask regards to that is why
this stock is still trading at a
discount to other names in its industry
group.
>> Yeah. And John, you know, I think the
the answer to that is nobody believes it
in terms of the the margin trajectory
and we don't believe it either. I mean I
I don't think you can sustain an 85%
gross margin for the indust memory
industry for you know x period amount of
time or you know several years out. I do
think they can sustain that for for the
next couple of quarters. Um I think more
importantly though is when you kind of
look at this company um it has
completely changed. I mean it has been
transformative in nature when you look
at some of the supply uh the uh
long-term customer agreements that
they've just signed about 16 of them. um
the improvement in terms of revenue
visibility from that as well as the free
cash flow trajectory. We're looking at
north of 200 billion in free cash flow
over the next three years and what
they're now going to be able to use that
free cash flow for and that's going to
be buybacks. And then when you kind of
look at that the balance sheet of this
company, I mean it's completely changed
relative to what we've seen in the past.
So even though you know at some point
that that margin trajectory is going to
let up um at this point in time the way
we're looking at it is even when you get
that rollover um the the trough margins
are still going to be above well above
the peak margins that we've seen in
prior cycles.
>> Angela, does it make sense to you that
all of the semiconductor stocks are
trading in tandem that because we saw
good results out of Micron Skinx rallied
by more than 10%.
So the so the memory you know the the
memory bucket yes I mean that that makes
sense to us. I mean you know clearly
what what benefits Micron is also going
to be benefit SK and um Samsung. So to
that degree I think it makes sense. Um
you know you're going to see similar
type of results I think from those two.
um when you start thinking about things
maybe from a broader perspective um I do
understand the fact that hey listen it
is a positive I think for the broader
semiconductor industry because if you've
got bottlenecks um you've got kind of
that um I think the implied view is hey
listen this at this point in time now
goes into 2028 or at least Micron has
kind of given you the thumbs up that
that's going to take place um that does
you know bode well for that the overall
broader semi-trade
>> I guess what I'm getting at is is it
normal for stocks to go up or down by
20% % every single day when people have
a different sentiment or a different
potential rumor coming out and the
inability to really price a name that
has been on an absolute moonshot that
has basically tripled in value and then
some over the past 12 months and it just
goes to the lack of understanding of
this exponential type of growth and how
you price it.
>> Yeah. No, I think you make a fair point.
And listen, I think, you know, when
people saw the Nvidia situation over the
last 3 years or so, I think, you know,
people thought that was kind of a one
hit thing and we'd never see it again.
And then you kind of look at what
Micron's doing here um and it's even
more pronounced than what we saw out of
um Nvidia, which is just absolutely
astonishing. But when you kind of think
about that just the wild moves that
we've seen, I I think it's it's one of
those situations where um nobody wants
to be no one wants to get caught look
you know holding this thing at the peak
of a cycle and um because of that you've
got extreme volatility. I think what
you're also kind of trying to figure out
or what the street's trying to figure
out is again u what midcycle look like
you know what what does normalized
earnings trajectory look like and
because of that there's just extreme
volatility that you're going to see
across the entire semiconductor industry
and even more pronounced on the memory
side. Um so I think that's a you know a
lot of what's going on at this point in
time. So um are these wild do these wild
swings make sense? Not necessarily, but
given the uncertainty that's out there,
um, you know, we understand why that's
happening.
>> Angela, can we get your reaction to
their mega margin? Is is this the peak
of their gross margins?
>> I don't think it goes much higher than
this. Um, in terms of gross margins, I
do think you kind of level out here in
the the mid 80s. Again, I think there's
some sort of limitation in terms of how
far you can go in margins. You maybe
there's some surprise quarter here over
the next couple of quarters where it
goes a little bit higher than that. But
you know as you kind of again you you
look towards maybe a longer term
trajectory. I'd say now you know
potentially mid70s7s
look like something that's more
realistic in nature where again that's
something that I didn't even think would
would have been possible here um 2 3
years ago. So um again you're looking at
potentially peak margins but uh when you
look at that free cash flow potential
you look at the amount of stock this
company can buy back given that free
cash flow. And if the stock doesn't go
higher, um you're potentially looking at
them, you know, reducing their share
count, let's call it at least 15 to 20%
here over the next two to three years.
Um again, that provides some sort of
gravitational uh pull to the upside
here. So, I don't think you necessarily
need to see margins go higher. I
actually think you can see margins
actually level off and pull back from uh
these levels to see the stock continue
to work.
>> Do you have an update on the mega fabs
that are coming to market? I mean, this
is a very local New York story. When can
we see that actually start impacting the
company?
Yeah, I mean they're you're you're
seeing them definitely pour more into
the the construction side of things here
over the next couple of quarters. You're
not going to see anything I'd say
extremely pronounced probably until 2028
27 into 2028. Um so it's going to take
time for a lot of these investments to
really start showing up in terms of the
additional capacity that's out there.
And again, another issue and and reason
why we continue to see this memory
bottleneck that's out there. Not to
mention when you kind of think about the
complexity of um you know this capacity
coming online and you know what it takes
to actually build high bandwidth memory
um it soaks up and absorbs so much of
that wafer capacity out there that um
again you we could end up being in this
kind of tight environment here um well
past 2028 in many respects.
>> Angelo it's got to catch up. Angelo Xena
there of CFR Micron up by 18%. Brammo
asking about the Cosby. You can have a
good fundamental story. You build up
leverage around it contributes to
volatility. Check out the Cosby. That's
the story in South Korea right now. The
domestic investors, not just the
international ones. The Cosby this week
is still down by about 1%. It's almost
flat on the week now. Dropped by 10% on
Tuesday. We saw a massive move on
Wednesday, up by 3%, up again by 5%
again this morning. We've seen wild
swings all week. And there are different
kinds of dynamics there in terms of the
retail investor as you've mentioned that
are levered up uh and have been
investing or pulling back and that
creates an even bigger swing uh every
single day. But you start to wonder how
do you price a story like Micron when
it's also Western Digital, it's SanDisk,
it's SKH Highix, it's Samsung,
everything is kind of wildly swinging in
one direction or another and all it
takes is a discussion of where you're
accelerating production in one company
that has specific factors that might
have been to compete with China. This
might be Micron's five-year agreements
with some of its clients. I mean, how
much is bespoke? How much is sort of do
they have a moat around this? And how
much is commoditized? There just aren't
that many companies that actually do it.
>> The stock this morning up by close to
18%. Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Vonyie Quinn has more.
Hey, Vonyie. [music]
>> Hey, John. In the UK, advisers to Andy
Burnham are encouraging the wouldbe
prime minister to consider reforming the
BOE and breaking up the Treasury.
Bernham hasn't laid out his vision for
the British economy, but a business
lobby group is warning against tax
increases.
NATO Secretary General Mark Ruda meeting
President Trump in the Oval Office,
seeking to ease Trump's frustration over
allies's reluctance to support the Iran
war.
>> This president is really doing a huge
amount of work to get NATO in better
shape. He had a big success last year in
the Hake with the 5% spending
commitment.
Trump reiterating his disappointment
with European allies for not allowing
the US use their [music] bases during
the Iran war.
Shares of IBM jumping in pre-market
trading after the company unveiled the
world's first sub one nanometer chip
[music] technology. IBM calling the
achievement a quote landmark moment in
computing pushing technology beyond the
nanometer era to the scale of atoms. And
that is your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Bonnie thank you appreciate it. More
from Vonyie in the next hour. Up next on
the program, facing down the inflation
squeeze.
>> Right now, the problem is inflation.
This is an American per people that is
going to have to contend with ongoing
inflationary pressures in core services
all the way to food.
>> Inflation data out a little bit later
this morning, 8:30 Eastern time. Up
next, Nita Richardson of ADP.
More data this morning, 8:30 Eastern
[music] time. Check it out. PCE the next
read on inflation going into a
contentious few months building for this
Federal Reserve. We'll get jobless
claims as well. Look out for that.
Apparently the labor market right now
not a problem for this Fed. So we'll
move on pretty quickly. Let's see equity
futures right now in the S&P 500 just
about firmer by 3/4 of 1% on the NASDAQ.
Some massive outperformance up by 2.2%.
[music]
Heading into that inflation data. Check
out yields 2's tens and 30s. Twos this
morning a break of 420 yesterday.
>> [music]
>> We're down to 415 so far today. And
Savanus this morning facing down the
inflation squeeze
>> right now. The problem is inflation.
This is an American per people that is
going to have to contend with ongoing
inflationary pressures in core services
all the way to food. There is a lot of
breadth under inflation. And who's
bearing the challenges of that? Well,
it's low and middle inome American.
>> So here's the latest this morning. PC
data due out in just under two hours
time. Rising costs [music] continuing to
outpace wage growth. Nita Richardson of
ADP writing, "Inflation continues to
weigh so heavily on sentiment. Years of
higher prices, even alongside rising
wages have shifted how households
experience this economy." NA joins us
now for more. Nita, welcome back to the
show. The energy problem, it feels like
it's going away. But is the inflation
issue here to stay?
>> Well, it has been part of five years of
our recent history, and I think that's
what's hitting Main Street quite hard.
you know, the Wall Street uh stock
market, they can look at today's numbers
and project forward. But what consumers
are doing is they're looking back back
to what they could afford a year ago,
two years ago, maybe even 10 years ago
when it comes to housing, and they see
that they're not keeping up. The BLS
reported that real wages are declining
in in May, year-over-year, and from
April to May. So, the accumulation of
these higher prices are really what
consumers are trying to absorb. And
Jonathan, I'll have to note that the the
savings rate right now is the lowest
it's been since 2008 when people were
losing houses in mass and most were
underwater. And yet, you know, with a
booming stock market, we're at the same
level of savings rate. And I think that
number in itself shows the pressure that
households are under right now. John was
mentioning Nila how uh one thing that
people have pointed to is that you're
seeing increasing momentum in the US
labor market and wages are starting to
pick up at a level where suddenly people
might be able to uh offset the increase
in prices. How much is that continuing?
How much do you see that as as being
sort of the ballast behind the inflation
story?
>> Well, at ADP we're a payroll company, so
we see that wages have been steady.
They've been holding for job stayers at
around 4 and a.5%. That's fantastic in
terms of the level, but Lisa, again,
it's about the accumulation. The job
increases that most people experience
are not enough to combat 5 years of
rising uh prices at the clip that we've
seen them rise over the last 5 years.
And prices are always rising. We always
know that wages generally keep up, but
absorbing them is becoming harder and
harder. And I think that's what's the
the disconnect here. Yes, wage growth is
pretty robust and the labor market is
fairly stable. In fact, it's probably
one of the most stable uh labor markets
in US history. I'll even go out on a
limb and say that. And yet, it's the
inflation picture that backdrop um is
still eroding the confidence that you
see in workers uh because they can't
keep up. Nila, if that's the case, are
you saying that it's not possible for
this level of inflation to be
sustainable and that ultimately,
especially with savings running dry,
people are going to start to push back a
little bit more? You're going to see
more demand destruction?
>> Yes. And I think that's already
occurring. Look, Lisa, one of the ways
that people actually increase their
wages to keep up with inflation is by
changing jobs. But if the labor market
is kind of it's steady but in some ways
very stagnant, you're not seeing a lot
of hiring. You're not seeing a lot of
turnover. That means there's less
opportunity to actually get that pay
bump by changing a job. So what do you
do next? Well, that goes back to your
budget. What can you afford? What can
you cut? Maybe it's that vacation. Um
but it is a change in how people are
experiencing the economy even if their
wages are going up. And that's the
important part. They may have a job.
They may see wage increases. It's still
not enough if the overall economy is
becoming more and more expensive.
>> Neil, with a little bit of heat taking
off of gasoline prices, do consumers
save that or are they just going out and
spending that elsewhere?
>> Um, maybe some can save that. Maybe some
can save um what uh the the gas prices
filling up the tank, but my suspicion is
those funds will be diverted to where
else we're seeing higher inflation. And
I'm a little disheartened by higher
rental costs, for example, that was
supposed to be uh going down over the
last year. We're seeing a pickup in
those fees. So, there's plenty of places
to put that gas savings, and we're not
sure that energy prices are out of the
woods yet. So, um there's a little bit
of uncertainty of how long, uh lower gas
prices will last.
>> And do you think the Fed has a role to
play here?
Yeah, they always have a role to play
when it comes to inflation. Um that role
is to maintain price stability as um
everyone at the Fed is very laser
focused on. But the question the
transmission mechanism Jonathan is
generally through the housing market and
that's where the Fed doesn't have the
strength of the toolkit that they used
to because there's not a lot of
inventory. There's not a lot of home
buying. The average age of the of a new
home buyer back when I was a housing
economist was in their early 30s. Now
that I'm focused on the labor market,
it's early 40s. And so people are not
experiencing that low interest rate or
housing environment or wealth
accumulation uh for another decade than
they used to. And I think that has an
effect on Fed policy and its
transmission in the main street.
>> Nita, it's good to see you. Really
thoughtful stuff as always. Nita
Richardson there of ADP heading into PC
data later this morning at 8:30 against
the backdrop of a debate around the
Federal Reserve potentially hiking later
this year.
>> Yeah, and you asked a good question
which is essentially what is the
mechanism that a Fed rate hike will have
in bringing down inflation in areas that
might be somewhat independent of those
rates. How many people do we talk to
that say that these companies are going
to keep spending on all of the uh
different AI related capbacks regardless
of whether interest rates are 25 or
basis 50 basis points higher? As we
know, housing is supply constrained, but
supply constrained for many reasons,
including the lock in that some people
have the golden handcuffs of a 2 3%
mortgage.
>> Yeah. I don't understand. [laughter]
>> Yeah.
>> And the lack of building in certain
markets, too.
>> Yeah. No. And look, that's this is true.
And some people did get in with low
interest rates and those people are not
moving and the rest of the world is
suffering the
>> What can the Fed do about that? That's
the issue I've got with all this. I mean
they could raise rates significantly,
torpedo growth of prospects, lower long
end interest rates and [music]
>> the long
>> boom
>> getting some of that flattening at the
moment.
>> Not quite that experience,
>> just a little bit. Equity features right
now up by 3/4 to 1%. Up next, we'll
catch up with the bullish Osen Quan of
Wells Fargo alongside Brian Gardner of
Stifel, Heath Terry of City, [music]
Megan Swiber of Bank of America.
>> What we all know is that earnings
estimates continue to rip higher.
>> 2026 earnings are going to be okay. The
chip names have done [music]
a great deal of the heavy lifting.
>> If we see a broadening, that would be a
healthy sign in this market.
>> We think there's [music] probably more
weakness coming through the summer
months.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your scores, the price action looks
like this. Equity futures on the S&P on
track to snap a 3-day losing streak on
the S&P 500 up by 8/10 of 1% on the
NASDAQ [music] 100 up by 2.3. Thank you,
Micron. In the pre-market, thank you.
85% [music] margins and absolutely
crushing estimates. That stock is up by
18% in the pre-market. Heading into
this, the rate debate, the tech trade is
fine based on this so far this [music]
morning. Later this morning, 8:30
Eastern time, PCE setting up the rate
debate at the Federal Reserve. How much
is inflation coming from other inputs
other than oil? How much is this
independent of what the Fed can do? How
much is this dependent on the AI trade?
[music] And how much does this depend on
people being able to buy Hermes and
Farerraamo ties? At a certain point, you
look at all of this and you start
wondering how much we are looking at an
overheated economy that the Fed can do
something about and will they be willing
to given that they [music] have a lot of
task forces discussing all of these
things. As a US consumer, according to
Paul Donovan, and maybe that's
individuals that have been on the show
or anchor [music] this show, have shown
impressive determination to keep
shopping throughout the tariff and oil
price shocks. And we have actually seen
individuals just look through the tariff
price shock and now [music] the oil
issue is becoming so much easier. We are
erasing the highs we had before the
start of this conflict.
>> This is Paul Smith on the sale.
>> Oh yeah,
>> just for [music] the record.
>> Is it Taylor?
>> No, this is not.
>> Oh wow. I think it's going to do it.
This is This is a Thursday tie. I I'm
not saying anything. after me this
morning.
>> I'm not going after anyone. I was just
saying that, you know, you look at the
high-end goods, they tend to be
increasing at a [music] faster pace and
that's boosting.
>> You got to get on weight list these days
to get some of these high-end goods.
>> Don't throw stones if you're sitting
there in balance. All right. Equity
futures right now in the S&P up by 0.8%.
Coming up this hour, Quan of Wells Fargo
after boosting his outlook for stocks.
Heath Terry of City as Micron's blowout
earnings ease AI concerns. and Megan
Swiper, Bank of America. Her team
calling for three rate hikes later this
year. We begin this out with stocks
rebounding after Micron's results
reignited enthusiasm for this tech
trade. Osen Quan of Wells Fargo raising
his year-end price target for the S&P
from 7,300 to 7950. Writing, sentiment
has reset, providing room for upside in
the AI trade. We continue to prefer
capex takers over spenders. Osen joins
us now for more. Osen, good morning. My
word's not yours, but it's that micron
over meta, micron over Microsoft.
>> Yeah. No, it's semis over hyperscalers
basically. So, capex takers over capex
spenders. Um, we have this funny chart
that shows the relative performance of
capex growers. So, if you were to go
long top 50 stocks in the S&P uh by
capex growth and rebalance each month,
you would have just underperformed
almost every month. meaning the market
hates uh you know stocks that are in an
investment cycle which which are
basically hyperscalers today. So I think
the easy trade still is to own AI infra
semis and you know some of the
construction companies and power things
like that over hypers.
>> When does the overspend inform the
spending? When does the push back by
investors you say investors hate it but
the stocks the companies keep doing it
when does it stop them? When do they
look at this and say you know what it's
time to pull back? I
>> I I think it's way too early for that. I
mean we we we have seen this movie
before right during Q4 last year. Uh the
market started pushing back on
hyperscalers capbacks. steady in care.
The market is pushing back now. They
don't care. They're actually raising
equity. Um I think it's way too early
for that. Um I think as long as demand
to token demand and compute demand
overall outpace the supply, which is the
case right now, I think they're going to
continue to invest.
>> One of our listeners put this CEO Micron
CEO quoted me from the conference call
that I thought was pretty amazing. Our
customers are recognizing that supply
shortages in memory and storage will
take considerable time to improve. We
currently do not have a line of sight as
to when memory supply will be able to
catch up with increasing demand. The
idea of what some of these companies are
able to charge is mindblowing. How do
you begin to price in what the valuation
of a company like that is given the fact
that maybe over the next 5 years they
could have 85% margins, but in 10 years
there'll be another micron and another
one and another one that will be
flooding the zone with supply.
>> Yeah. I mean, it's it's going to be very
difficult to value these companies. The
thing is, if you look at multiples,
they're not expensive. They're actually
cheaper than where it was about a year
ago. Um, so it's really driven by
profits and these profits, as we saw
last week, la last night, it's still
very, very strong. I mean, that's really
why we're bullish on equities overall
and why we upgraded our S&P target. It's
really because of profits. So, we were
basically neutral uh about two to three
weeks before we turned bullish again uh
last week. And the reason why we were
neutral was because sentiment was
euphoric and there was inflation
concern. Sentiment has now reset. Uh our
sentiment indicator is actually firmly
neutral. Inflation risk. Oil is at down
to 60s. So I think inflation concern is
going to subside as well. That's why we
turn bullish.
>> Want to pick up on that. Is oil prices
declining enough to offset the inflation
that we're seeing say in memory chips or
other components related to the AI
buildout and other people who are
earning maybe some of the uh payouts to
go from Google say to anthropic and then
they can pay for whatever they want.
>> Yeah. I mean for the overall economy
memory uh prices and some of the
inflationary pressure that we're seeing
from the buildup isn't that much. It's
really the consumer and what they see
when they fill up their gas tank or when
they go grocery shopping. And with oil
down to 60 bucks, you know, 60s, uh, you
know, I I think the inflationary
pressure is going to subside over the
next two months. And that's going to
alleviate some of the concerns for the
macro cycle.
>> But you don't think they save it. They
actually go out and spend it, the
consumer.
>> Yeah. I mean, the savings rate is pretty
low. Um, and you know, they're going to
continue to spend on the economy. And we
highlighted two tailwinds that not many
people are or actually nobody's talking
about uh for the second half of the
year. One of which is the tariff refund.
Uh so we were skeptical too that the
refunds were actually going to go out.
But over the past month uh there was $25
billion of checks being issued to uh the
importers and total collected under AIPA
was $165 billion which is about 50 basis
points of GDP. Uh so if that actually
goes out to to companies and during the
Q Q1 earning season about 40 companies
talked about ter fund and eight eight
companies actually uh recognize it as
earnings. So I think as we move into the
second half second quarter earning
season I think more companies are going
to be talking about it and I think
that's going to boost EPS even more.
>> What's the other tailwind that no one's
talking about?
>> It's Trump accounts. Uh so starting in
July uh Trump accounts will be open and
people can fund their kids uh Trump
accounts and the government is going to
subsidize about $1,000 for each kid uh
born between born from 2025. And we
estimate about $20 billion of equity
inflows just from Trump accounts. And
that $20 billion is going to be price
sens price insensitive flows uh that
happened mostly in July and August
concentrated in US equities really large
caps. So it's going to benefit tech over
others but it's going to be a you know
pretty sizable tailwind for the overall
market.
>> So they're the tailwinds. Let's talk
about some push back. So this came from
JP Morgan who also raised their price
target on the S&P 500 but acknowledged
the following. We've reset the bar
higher heading into earning season
again, making it more difficult for
companies to significantly surprise to
the upside. The takeaway seems to be
that things are so good, they can't get
better.
>> Where do you stand on that?
>> I mean, I think the bar has been risen,
but historically when we actually see
EPS getting revised up into earnings,
companies actually tend to be beat. So
the earnings momentum it typically
continues and I think Q2 earning season
I think companies are going to beat even
the higher bar and I think that's going
to continue to push the market higher.
>> Do you think that broadens out beyond
the obvious places?
>> I think so. Yeah, I I do think the
market's going to broaden out a little
bit. We still prefer semis and AI infra
over others. Uh so we were actually more
in the camp that things are going to
broaden out more meaningfully before the
Fed and the Fed sounded a little more
hawkish uh than what we had initially
expected and I think that is a headwind
to the broading trade uh not necessarily
to the index but more for more for
broadening. So I do think it's a
headwind but you know cyclical calls
have some catch-up to do. So I think I
think the market is going to broaden out
a little bit but not as much as what we
had expected before. Sounds like this is
another example of the bond market
thinking that rate hikes are in the
coffer and equity analysts saying no way
no how you guys are just wrong. Is that
correct?
>> The way we interpret the bond market
into the equity market is I think it's
it matters more for the the breadth of
the market rather than the index level.
Um as long as they're not necessarily
hiking this year, I think the the market
is actually going to do well. Our our
hot view is that they're actually going
to be on hold. So if that actually plays
out then I think the market's going to
be okay. And even the hiking cycle is
not that bad. I mean I I think I forgot
the exact stat but during the tech
bubble I think it took you know like 150
basis points of hike before the tech
bubble actually popped. So you know it
it it lasted through the hiking cycle
during the tech bubble and you know I
think one or two hikes is going to be
okay.
>> This is just fascinating to me John. We
heard this yesterday from Daryl I
know from the same company. So there is
definitely this house call about no
hikes. But still, I find this really
interesting. It's sort of usually you
think of the bond market as a smart
money and the stock market is uh the
dummy money. In this case, the stock
market saying you guys are fooling
yourselves if you don't see what's
happening with oil. If you don't see
what's happening in some of these other
disinflationary inputs and frankly what
what's happening politically, this isn't
a Fed that's going to hike.
>> I think we are having that debate in
fixed income though of the rate
strategists that are coming on. There is
a debate right now about whether this
switch up at the Fed is a change in
style or a change in substance. Is it a
change in policy or how we communicate
policy? And we'll spend the next few
months trying to figure this out.
>> If you believe that it's a change in
style and not substance and you think
that actually what they're going to end
up doing is well, if you think that
they're going to end up keeping things
on hold, then you buy the front end of
the yield curve. And we've seen a little
bit of that over the past couple of days
because people are saying, "Hold on a
second, maybe this has gone too far."
>> Osan, good to see you.
>> Good to see you.
>> 7950 on the S&P 500 year end. New price
target over at Wells Fargo. Osen Kuan
equity futures right now positive by
7/10en of 1% on the S&P massive
outperformance on the NASDAQ by more
than 2% so far this morning. Let's keep
an update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Vonnie Quinn has more.
Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. President Donald
Trump kicking off the United States
250th birthday celebration with a rally
style speech on the National Mall. The
speech is the first of many events in
the administration's Freedom 250
programming that will stretch over 16
days.
Anthropic accusing Alibaba of trying to
illicitly access its AI models. [music]
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg,
Alibaba used nearly 25,000 fake accounts
and nearly 30 million message exchanges
with its chatbot [music] clawed
targeting its most prized capabilities.
Qualcomm shares rising in the
pre-market. [music]
The company forecasting sales of more
than 15 billion a year by fiscal 2029
thanks to the booming market for AI
components and data centers. And tune in
to BTE at 11 a.m. for Ed Lau's interview
with Qualcomm CEO Cristiano Ammon. And
that is your Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Thank you for the
update. Up next on the program, the
president calling out big oil.
>> Ex Mobile, it's Chevro.
It's uh Shell, it's U BP. They're not
reducing the prices. We are doing a big
investigation on it.
>> Who does that sound like? I'm next on a
program. Brian Gardner of Stel live from
New York City this morning. [music] Good
morning.
[music]
Micron higher by 18% [music] around
those levels throughout much of this
morning up 18.5
right now. That's lending itself to this
move right here across the board.
Equities high on the S&P on the NASDAQ
on the NASDAQ up by 2.2%. In the bond
[music] market, things stabilize going
into PCE a little bit later. Yields on
the front end of the curve. Two is
around 415 contributing to that move.
This move in crude crude check it
[music] out. It's just crazy to see this
down in the 60s. WTI at 69, Brent crude
at 72. [music] So you have two things
going on. More barrels moving through
the straight of Hermuz. Secretary Wright
yesterday actually talked about 72
ships, 20 million barrels transited
through the straight. [music] Also, did
you see this? Iraq are reporting
potentially maybe going to leave OPEC
because they want to hit higher higher
quotas. This is the UAE effect and
[music] you can start to see more
countries saying, "Look, the UAE left.
They're getting as much product out as
they want. [music] Why do we need to be
holding to the kingdom? We're going to
go too." There's an old saying in
financial markets that if you want to
make a fall out of someone, ask them for
a forecast of crude, right? That's been
a story the last 3 months.
>> People underestimated how much supply
demand dynamics would adjust, how much
demand would come out of the market,
coming from places like China. And right
now, the market's getting flooded with
barrels. Some of the anecdotal stories
of the calls inbound about, hey, want to
buy my oil? Gives you a sense of how the
demand dynamics haven't changed as
quickly as the supply dynamics seem
[music] to be adjusting. Such a strange
first half of the year. The first
quarter felt like a lifetime. Second
quarter gone.
>> Absolutely. And you look at what the
main driving narrative has been. I mean,
we've been through tariffs. We've been
through rebates. We've been through this
question of the straight of moose. We've
been through AI. We've been through the
bus. We've been through
capturing of Nicholas Madora sitting in
a [music] jail just a few miles south of
us.
>> Wild.
>> At the halfway point of the year, I
think half of Wall Street ready to
retire. Let's talk about [music] energy
under surveillance this morning. The
president calling out big oil.
>> We are not seeing anything at the pump
by comparison to what it should be. We
should be in my opinion at $2.25.
Exon Mobile, it's Chevron,
it's uh Shell, it's uh BP. They're not
reducing the prices commensurate with
what what's happening. We are doing a
big investigation on it. So, here's the
latest this morning. The president
ordering the DOJ to look into oil
companies, saying gas prices should be
225, the national average holding just
below $4. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall has
the latest from Washington. Hey, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, this is
really underscoring the mounting
frustration from President Trump about
how higher costs are becoming a
political liability as we head into the
midterms, now alleging anti-competitive
behavior. Though the industry has
pointed out that gasoline prices don't
adjust immediately to changes in crude
because the effect has to move through
the supply chain and it can take weeks
to get from pipelines to processing to
distribution. Plus, local gas station
operators see their margins shrink when
there are quick climbs in the wholesale
costs, which typically means that they
are more inclined to lower their prices
gradually when they're setting those
final prices at the pump. Now, we did
get a response from the industry.
According to the American Petroleum
Institute, which represents many of
these companies, they said in part in a
statement, quote, "Our industry shares
the goal of delivering relief at the
pump and restoring stability to global
energy markets." Now, President Trump
isn't alone in his criticism. This is
very reminiscent of the bid by the Biden
administration to investigate these big
oil companies amid the price spikes
related to the conflict in Ukraine. But
John, this feels very notable
considering that the Trump
administration is considered to be very
aligned with the oil industry when it
comes to collaborating on the
president's push for more domestic
drilling and his domestic energy agenda.
Bloomberg News did report in April that
the US energy secretary and interior
secretary called up these executives
directly and asked them to try to boost
supplies in a bid to bring down costs.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest. Tyler,
thank you. Brian Gardner of Stifo
writing the following. After the
midterms, the president will have less
incentive to not blow things up. The
chances for political volatility and
chaos arising. Brian, we called out the
financial illiteracy of the left, of the
senator of Massachusetts, of the Biden
White House when they said these kind of
things. Why are we seeing it from the
Republican White House now as well going
into the midterms?
>> This is what you get in a populist era
of of politics that we're in. uh
Jonathan, it's uh it's it's playing to
the public in ways that you don't see in
normal times. So, you know, we're going
into this midterm election and the
president does feel the pressure on
prices, uh on affordability, and he's
trying to push on whatever levers. Now,
I I think we got to take a step back
because there have been similar threats
throughout, right? We go back to
January, you're just talking about how
the first quarter, you know, seemed like
a long time ago. Well, in the first
quarter he was threatening caps on
interest rates of credit card companies
and banks. Um, and so that never came to
pass. So I I I think we need to take
some of this the the threats against the
oil companies with with a large grain of
salt. But he does feel emboldened to go
out and and you know going into his last
two years, he's not going to be
restrained by normal political factors.
So I think we're going to see um more
actions by the White House where he
wants to impose a legacy. Um, so there's
going to be chaos and and volatility in
the future.
>> Brian, I was traveling with the
president a few weeks ago and I asked
him if he felt like it's odd to be on
the same side of some policies like
Senator Bernie Sanders and he said
actually on economics sometimes they do
align. Are you saying we're going to see
more of that after the midterms?
>> I I think I think the chances are high
that yes, we will. Um, don't forget um
let's go back. I'll give you another
example. uh after the November elections
with the election of the new mayor in
New York, uh the two of them met and had
a a fairly cordial conversation and as
somebody observed, game sees game. Um so
the president and Mayor Mandami see in
each other that populist tendency, those
populist qualities, how they play to the
public at large and an angry public.
What does the public want? they know how
to play on that uh to to advance their
their political agendas.
>> Yeah. I think yesterday he called Mayor
Mdani handsome or good-looking dude
that's charismatic. At the same time,
he's having a massive fight with his own
party when he went to the GOP's steering
lunch. Are we going to see more of this
kind of Real Housewives of DC kind of
blow up meetings going into the midterm
election?
>> I think yes. I mean, it it's kind of
headscratching to the political class um
and to Republican strategists because um
it does wind up imposing inflicting
self-imposed wounds, self-inflicted
wounds. Um it does not help Republicans
going into the midterms. Voters are are
going to be voting on as a referendum on
the president and the president's party.
And what this does is it makes them look
ineffective, confused, chaotic, and
voters don't want that. I think there's
been a clear message throughout the last
couple of cycles. Voters are discontent.
They're unhappy, but they also want
stability. That's why they went with
Biden in 2020. That's why they went with
Trump in 2024 because they didn't think
that Biden fulfilled that. And Trump was
going to be somewhat more normal um and
controlled, but then compared to Biden.
And what are we getting? We're not
getting that. And the voters are not
getting that. And so I I I think all of
this is just against the the president's
political uh interests and his party's
political interests,
>> right? And maybe voters want that at
large, but with the primary system, what
you get a lot of the different whether
it's Democrat or whether it's
Republican, the more extreme candidates,
I just wonder how much we can expect an
acceleration of that in the midterm
elections given what we've seen in the
New York elections recently and more
broadly uh just sort of this populist
wave that's gaining traction. It's not
just a populist wave, but it's it's a
it's an era where the voting electorate
of the two parties are really big chunks
of them are sitting out. So, we talk
about populism, we talk about the
extreme candidates that are being
nominated in the primary system. Well,
75 to 80% of each party sits out at
primary. So, people people will bemoan
the lack of moderation of centism. Well,
if you want centrism, you got to go out
and vote and and in order to beat the
wings. The two wings are dominating the
primary processes and the center is
sitting it out. Um, so that that's why
we're in the position that we're in.
>> What do you think that means for policy?
I mean, what should you what should
people on Wall Street be watching in
terms of policy shifts? Is it AI
restriction? Is it when it comes to the
housing market, this one aspect of it
right now in limbo, but still the
institutional investors won't have the
ability to play in this market as much?
I mean, how much is this going to
actually make its way into policy? I
>> I I think there are limits on how much
it it it makes its way into policy. I
mean, you know, I I ticked off a couple
of examples of some of some Trump uh
proposals from early in the year that
did not happen. Um, the rhetoric around
antirust was quite heightened after the
2024 election. We thought we were going
to get kind of an extension of the Biden
antitrust policy. That didn't happen. Um
I think Washington is kind of in in a
position where everybody kind of sings
the same song but not maybe from the
same himnil. They're not they're singing
a tune but not the same words. Um so
there there's going to be talk about AI
restrictions. There going to be talk
about affordability as there has been
but getting to an agreement on how to
address that. there's a big gap between
the two parties despite the fact that
the president and Bernie Sanders and
Elizabeth Warren will agree with each
other from time to time. Um, getting
them in a room and actually hammering
out a deal is much more difficult. So, I
think the market kind of sees that they
see they see the lack of progress and
productivity coming out of Washington
and just chalk this all up to political
rhetoric and political grandstanding.
And that's why I don't think we've seen
a follow through from the political
rhetoric into the market so far.
>> Brian, it's good to see you. It's always
great to catch up. Brian Gardner there,
Steve. In many ways, this set the tone
for the start of the year. Do you
remember capping interest rates on
credit cards? You've brought up housing,
restricting investing in housing. That
set the tone really at the start of the
year.
>> Yeah. What's actually gotten through
though, and I think this is important,
right? How much is this job boning?
Whether it's calling out Exxon, well,
he's no friends of Darren Woods, right?
We've seen that time and time again,
Chevron, etc. Is this sort of chaw
voting to try to say, "Look, I'm doing
something. Check this out. I'm doing
something on affordability rather than
an actual policy prescription."
>> Do you remember in early January there
was a phone call between President
[music] Trump and Elizabeth Warren and
it was about capping credit card
interest rates?
>> Yeah.
>> Stunning.
>> That set the tone for the year. But to
your point, not much got done.
>> I love the idea of humming along to the
same himnil but having different words.
It sounds like my [music] family trying
to sing along to a song.
>> What is the latest Kazabrammo? What's
the latest fight? Haven't shown one of
them for a while.
>> It's been it's been a lot of joy
recently. End of year, people ready for
the summer. Everyone's bullish.
>> Going out late so I don't see them.
>> Terrifying.
3-day losing streak on the S&P 500 about
to snap that later on this morning with
equities pushing higher on the S&P by6
on the NASDAQ 100 by [music] two full
percentage points off the back of some
stunning numbers from Micron. We'll
spend some time on that in just a
moment. Twos 10 and 30s in the bond
market going into PCE data later on this
morning look like this 415 on twos 10's
around [music] 440 a drop back from 450.
Nice rally just yesterday was so we get
a little bit later this morning. Just
bear in mind once you've got CPI and
PPI, [music]
Wall Street has a pretty good idea of
what PCE will look like.
>> And if the Wall Street estimates are
correct, we're going to get 4.1%
yearover-year core PCE acceleration,
which would be the highest or the
fastest pace going back to April of
2023. [music]
That's the bad news. The good news is
people, some people will argue that is
going to decelerate from here because of
oil prices going down. [music] Is it?
That is the big debate right now on Wall
Street.
>> We are committed to 2%. Inflation is a
choice. all the kind of things you're
hearing from the new Federal Reserve
Chair Kevin Walsh. Does that mean they
need to hike to get from four down to
two?
>> I have to ask the task force because
right now the task force is examining
whether that is the correct metric to
use and whether that actually
overweights some of the components
coming from AI that could potentially
not be as sticky and frankly be less
relevant to what the Fed policy rate is.
>> But also the Fed might be in a position
to punt this a little bit. We just had a
resolution in terms of a 60-day
ceasefire [music] and oil prices coming
down. What's going to be baked into this
PC is obviously when oil prices,
gasoline [music] prices, diesel, etc.
were much higher. Where are we going to
be at the end of the summer? We're
getting a helping hand right now at
least from energy. Check it out. Brent
and WTI declining once again. Brent this
morning 73 down about [music] 1% just
off the lows of the session. WTI in the
60s at 69 80 and down by8% so far this
morning.
>> The barrels are moving and demand
structurally [music]
may be uh permanently diminished. I keep
thinking about what Dan Straven said
yesterday of Goldman Sachs that the
level of shift that you saw over in
China to electric vehicles even in
Europe has been stunning and rapid and
that the increase in oil uh consumption
just isn't there in the same kind of way
as a result of the structural demand
[music] destruction that you've seen
>> without the shift in China the
stockpiling too that China went through
over the last year so they could pull
[music] back on imports pull back on
refining as well without that they'd
have a different story they really
helped out. Oh, absolutely. China came
to the rescue of the global economy.
Almost ch came to the rescue of this
administration. They [music] buy the
lion share of Iranian crude. Maybe the
administration was willing to forgo any
issues in the past they've had with
China. I imagine this was that this came
up at [music] their conversation in
Beijing because without China doing
this, you would have seen prices much
higher.
>> A full round [music] trip on crude, a
volatile one, an exhausting one in many
ways for everyone. Two hours away from
the cash open. Let's get you some
mornings. Some single names. Yahara has
more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. The bar was high and Micron
more than cleared it. Shares are rising
17 and a.5% in the pre-market after it
issued a blockbuster forecast saying
that margins jumped nearly 85%
last quarter. Its CEO saying that
there's still no line of sight uh to
supply catching up with demand and he
sees shortages remaining beyond 2027.
Also helping to lift the chip trade this
[music] morning is Qualcomm. shares are
rising 10 uh.2% after saying it expects
uh nearly $15 billion in AI data center
revenue uh by 2029. It's a dramatic
shift for a company that made its name
uh supplying [music]
chips to smartphones. Now it's chasing
the AI infrastructure boom. And we end
on Alibaba. Those ADRs falling at nearly
3% in the premarket after Anthropic
accused the Chinese tech giants of
illicitly accessing [music] its clawed
AI model despite its best efforts to try
and keep that out of China. Showing how
far uh if the allegations are true,
showing how far companies are willing to
go to access those leading [music]
models. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thank you for the
update on our radar this morning. Our
top story then, Micron shares surging in
the pre-market. with the chipmaker
delivering blowout earnings with a gross
margin of 85%. Micron's results easing
concerns around AI fueled growth.
Elsewhere, as Yihara suggested,
Anthropic accusing Alibaba of launching
a large-scale effort to quote elicitly
access Claude with the use of nearly
25,000 fraudulent accounts. Anthropic
seeking additional government support to
counter unfair practices by Chinese
rivals. And finally, Google expecting to
lose two of its AI researchers to rival
Anthropic. sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the staffers are key
contributors to Google's Gemini their
exits are the latest in a series of
high-profile departures.
>> So I did spend some time trying to find
out how much Jonas Adler and Alexander
Pritzell were being paid to leave Google
and go to Anthropic uh which is of
course the operator of Claude. Couldn't
find it. I'm guessing quite a bit right
now. baseball contract money
>> probably beyond because ultimately this
is probably the key existential race and
if you think that Micron can see
insatiable demand right now every single
tech company has insatable demand for
talent that can give them the next best
thing that can get them the leg up for
the most expensive models and right now
you have to wonder how much this is
contributing to some of the
underperformance of some of these names
whether it's Google whether it's Meta
whether it's Amazon or even Microsoft it
is difficult for them to retain talent
when they cannot promise the kind of
moonshot from an IPO and the shares that
they might receive that you would get if
you go to the likes of Anthropic. Signal
Fire, a venture capital firm, did a
study last year and this is what they
found. Deep Mind Engineers are nearly 11
times more likely to leave for Anthropic
than the reverse. Is this even awkward a
little bit for Alphabet given the fact
that they compete, but they're also a
partner as well when it comes to Google
and Alphabet? I imagine right now before
the IPO, this is where you'd want to get
in.
>> Wouldn't you rather be that kind of
rich? Like rich and no one really knows
your name as opposed to rich and
everyone knows who you are.
>> Yes, that's right.
Hundreds of millions of dollars. I mean,
>> no, some people want to be famous,
Bremo. I just don't, you know, not
interested in any of that. If I could
earn that kind of money and no one knew
who I was, amazing.
>> I'm not that picky. You know, however
you want to throw it at me, that's good.
I'm glad you could sit courtside in the
Knicks. You could sit front row at World
Cup. No one knows you're there. the
camera. I hate that about the World Cup,
by the way, since you bring that up. The
celebrity cam. What's that about? I
don't care. I don't care who's in a
stadium.
>> Are you not entertained, John? I thought
we went over this yesterday.
>> I don't need that to entertain.
>> I like the celebrity. I like the
celebrity cam when it's when it's on
Mike Bloomberg. Get to see who he is.
>> Okay, that's different.
>> All right. Of course, that's different.
Love the celeb cam. [laughter]
>> Let's turn back to our top story this
morning. Micron shares surging on its
blockbuster forecast. He Terry of City
Research writing, "The health of the AI
trade will continue to be defined by the
irresistible force of enterprise demand,
meeting the immovable object of
inference capacity." Heath joins us now
for more. Hey, good morning. Good to see
you.
>> Yeah, good morning.
>> Let's pick up on that enterprise demand.
Just how robust is that right now?
>> Look, it's it's incredibly robust. We'll
get Q2 numbers in a few weeks, but if
you look at what we've seen over the
last the last few quarters, we've gone
from 28% year-over-year growth in Q1 of
last year to 33% in Q2 to 53% in Q3 to
91% to 141% in Q1 of this year. Like
that kind of bend in the S-curve that
we're that we're seeing here and we
believe it's going to accelerate again
in in Q2. That's the best proxy for
what's happening in enterprise demand.
And anybody who works at a Fortune 500
type company that is pushing this into
um production is could can tell you
they're seeing it in real time.
>> There is a rush to build out capacity to
meet all this demand. Some companies are
benefiting more than others. Micron with
85% margins. Other companies that are
doing a lot of the spending right now
being punished. The stocks are being
punished. This is a thing we keep
bringing up. Do you think that changes
the trajectory for spending?
>> Look, no. I I mean not anytime soon. Um
because the companies are getting real
returns on this. the the the market
right now is not giving the companies
that are spending on this, the
hyperscalers, the kind of credit that
they normally would for a couple of
different reasons, but the biggest one
is um there is this gap between when you
have to start spending and building all
of this out and when you actually start
seeing the returns on it. If you look at
cash return on cash invested, which we
believe is sort of the best gauge of of
the returns that they're actually
generating on this, the hyperscalers are
generating 29% returns on this
investment. Um very stable. It was 29%
in Q1. It's 29% in Q4. If you have the
ability to borrow at 6% or to issue
equity and get a 29% return on it,
you're supposed to do that regardless of
what your stock price is doing. And
while the stock prices aren't doing what
Micron stock price is doing, um they're
hanging in there enough that investors
haven't rejected this, right? Uh Google
issued $85 billion worth of equities.
The market didn't really blink.
>> Well, just to build on what John is
talking about, maybe people are still
lending and they're still able to raise
cash. nonetheless is getting a little
bit hairy for the likes of Microsoft
down 18% for its worst monthly uh
performance going back to 2008. You see
Oracle down more than 30%.
[clears throat] Are we starting to see
the beginnings of investor push back
that maybe hasn't put teeth in this
trade by withdrawing cash but certainly
has put a little bit of notice around
that capital?
>> Well, the the the the thing that uh we
have to remember particularly when it
comes to Microsoft and and Oracle is
those are both software companies. Look
at everything else in software and what
those what those stocks have done. Um
the market's not responding negatively
to to the acceleration in growth that
you're seeing at Azure, the returns
you're seeing at Azure. It's responding
to the other 70% of Microsoft's business
that is software. Um it's responding to
the to the biggest part of Oracle's
business, which is software. [snorts] Um
and so I I think that's um uh that if
anything should encourage more
investment in this area, particularly as
we start to see the acceleration in
Azure revenues through the end of
through the end of this year, which we
believe the market will respond
positively to.
>> We've seen this rolling ball of cash and
as we heard from Sebastian Paige
earlier, everyone's looking for the
choke points, the next place where
you're going to see things just sort of
shoot exponentially higher because of
this insatiable demand and the limited
supply. After memory, what's next? I
mean, do you have your eye on kind of
those choke points?
>> I mean, we we do. I mean, the choke
points sort of exist throughout the
supply chain right now. Memory is
obviously the biggest one. Anthropic
told you that very loudly a few weeks
ago when they raised their um their most
recent round. They had the opportunity
to to choose strategic partners. They
could have picked anyone they wanted.
They chose three, Samsung, Micron, and
Heinix. And so like if if anyone who's
surprised by what's happening with
Micron today and what's been happening
with high bandwidth memory didn't pay
attention to what Anthropic told them.
Um the next point after that is it it's
it's at interconnect. It's in storage.
It's in labor uh in a very big way. And
of course it's in power. We've been
talking about that for for so long. It's
also because of what you see with
Micron. It's very much in semicap
equipment. Um because we do have to make
more memory. We do have to make more
chips. We need more compute. We need
more um uh storage and memory.
>> Do you think some of these companies
along the supply chain when we could
potentially see these issues emerge
later in the year or next year as they
build this out are undervalued right
now?
>> Well, I mean, so we've been saying this
like from I I we I started at city a
year ago. We the first thing that we
said is you want to be where the
bottlenecks are. Um and that has
continued to be the case and we've sort
of stuck with that that you you have
this is where pricing goes. You were
talking about sort of the
underperformance of the hyperscalers. um
you want to be where people are spending
money, not necessarily with the people
who are spending the money. Um and so
that's going to continue to be the case.
We would argue it's not even so much
undervalued is just estimates are too
low. Um consensus numbers aren't high
enough because the amount of
infrastructure that is going to get
built, the amount of pricing increases
that you're going to see that you know
irresistible demand, immovable supply,
the only thing that breaks in that is
price. You saw it in the Micron number,
85% gross margins. memory companies are
not supposed to have 85% gross margins.
Eventually that will settle out because
that's what cyclicals do. Um but we're a
long way away from that happening.
>> You said that one of the choke points
was in labor. Are you talking about
Jonas Adler? Are you talking about Dave
who constructs some of what we're seeing
uh with the hyperscaler buildings?
>> So it's certainly both. Um there is not
a lot of talent out there that has the
capability of advancing these models the
way that level of sort of the Jonas
Adlers of the world do. I have no idea.
But I mean if you if you if you look at
some of the stuff that was announced
last summer, right, when Meta was doing
these deals, right, Anthropic is doing
these deals now, Meta was doing them
last summer, it was six. And in some
case, you know, I mean, it was it was it
was, you know, very large sort of, you
know, in some cases billion dollar kind
of pay packages over multi multi-year.
And when you look at sort of the
acquisition hires that many companies
have done, it falls into that hundreds
of millions uh and and beyond kind of
level. Um uh that said what I was
referring to is is very much it's the
electricians, the plumbers, the
construction people that actually have
to build these data centers. There are
very few people in the world that have
the skills to be able to to to build at
the level that these data centers
require. Um and those people are in in
massive demand right now and and
deservedly they're getting paid a lot
more too.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. I think that's the takeaway here.
>> Yeah. No, it really I I think that I
need to give some new recommendations to
my children.
>> Hey, it's good to see you. Thanks for
being here. breaking it down. Just a
real clinic there for us. Heath Terry of
City Research. I think that's the second
time so far this morning. Basically, the
takeaway is the runway is longer than
you think it is when it comes to a lot
of these themes.
>> Micron kind of threw that in everyone's
face overnight. I mean, the idea that we
could see that kind of gains and the
rhetoric coming out of the company
saying we have no idea when the demand
is going to start to fade because right
now it's just to the moon.
>> Micron this morning up by close to 18%.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Fonnie Quinn has more.
Hey Fonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. Open AAI unveiling
its first custom AI chip developed in
partnership with Broadcom. [music] So
far, the chip called Jalapeno is showing
cost savings of roughly 50% and will be
integrated into large data centers
[music] from OpenAI backer Microsoft and
other partners. Cerebra's share is
falling to the lowest since its IPO in
Wednesday trading following the
company's earnings. Cerebra's annual
revenue forecast falling short of
analyst expectations. [music] The
reaction underscoring the sky-high
expectations for AI chip companies.
In sports, South Africa qualifying for
the knockout stage of the World Cup for
the first time after beating South Korea
1 [music] nil. Switzerland edging past
Canada to finish in the top of group B.
And Brazil beating Scotland 3-0. [music]
Tonight, it's team USA facing Turkey in
its final group stage match. And that is
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Vonnie, thank you. The Tartan [music]
Army just the winners of the World Cup
so far. Sad's not really worked out, but
just fantastic to see what those fans
have done in the [music] northeast of
this country.
>> It's been fantastic. I mean, honestly, I
love the spirit that we have brought. I
mean, all of the fans have been pretty
awesome.
>> It's pretty cool, right?
>> Yeah. [music] I like the Norwegian
rowers.
>> Yeah, the Norwegian rowers. I was going
to say
>> amazing. You know, the Scots are pretty
wild. You've got, of course, the
Brazilian yellow army that seems to be
going around the country. Yeah. I mean,
be everywhere. Uh, it's really it's
>> they're having a good time, too. Yeah.
All right. [music] Up next on the
program, the Fed's hawkish tilt.
>> We don't think the Fed and Chair Walsh
are going to be able to raise interest
rates like they like the bond market is
priced in. It's part of Chair Walsh
establishing his independence. New new
sheriff in town. [music] Up next, we'll
catch up with Megan Swiber of Bank of
America. Bank of America looking for
three hikes this year.
The AI trade upended for about 3 days
and not even that really this morning.
Equity futures up by 610 of 1% [music]
on the S&P up by two percentage points
on the NASDAQ. Micron in the pre-market
is absolutely flying. The coverage will
continue right here on Bloomberg TV.
Micron up by 18% in early trading. So
the take trade is [music] doing okay.
What about the rate hike debate? Twos
right now 10's 30s in the bond market
look like this twos around 416 yields
picking up just a bit upper basis point
[music] going into PC data later on this
morning under surveillance this morning
the Fed's hawkish tilt
we don't think the [music] Fed and Chair
Walsh are going to be able to raise
interest rates like they like the bond
market has priced in one time is just
symbolic it doesn't do anything really
for monetary policy it's part of Chair
Walsh establishing his independence
[music]
new new sheriff in down. So, here's the
latest this morning. PC data due out in
just less than an hour's time. Rising
inflation expected to reinforce bets.
The Federal Reserve will raise rates in
the coming months. The team at Bank of
America calling for three hikes this
year. Megan Swiper writing, "Wash is a
Fed chair who wants to be actionable.
The task forces are not a tool to buy
time, but a tool to get things done. We
think the market can price in a higher
probability of a July hike." Megan joins
us now for more. Megan, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> This is the debate on this program right
now. style versus substance. You don't
just think this is style, you think this
is substance. There's a shift here.
>> We think that this is substance, John.
And what was really shocking to the
market, not so much us because we were
on more of the hawkish side of the
equation coming into the meeting last
week was just Wars' commitment to bring
inflation back down to 2%. And this this
notion that the Fed has been missing on
this mandate for not just one or two
years, but five years. Um, we get the PC
data this morning. uh PC is really where
the problem sits. Not so much CPI,
certainly not inflation expectations if
you're looking at market pricing. And
this is what the Fed has to acknowledge.
They still have this very firm
commitment to 2% PCE. And the data this
morning, we think will warrant a Fed
that's going to have to hike rates
sooner and get out from behind this
problem that's been persisting for 5
years.
>> And to your point, not just hike once,
>> twice, three times this year. How well
priced is that story?
>> It's not well priced. We think and I I
my my sense talking to a lot of clients,
a lot of investors on this is that
there's still a very big contingent that
do not think that wars will deliver
hikes at all. And that really comes from
more of this inertia that we've seen the
market trade with over the past year
that Trump was going to appoint someone
to the Fed who was just going to blindly
be able to cut rates. We also have this
global dynamic going on as we see hikes
getting taken out of European curve,
guilt curve and that's because those
hikes were very much more so predicated
on the inflation coming from oil. This
is not the case in the US where we have
much more strength coming from core
numbers coming from services inflation.
Um and that really is what underpins our
conviction that the Fed is going to hike
here.
>> What about the task forces? Don't they
have to get started? [laughter]
I don't I I don't think Lisa that
they're going to wait until we see the
conclusions of these task forces to
actually uh action anything. Um we
actually take a very different notion
than I think many in the market who have
been looking at this task force uh you
know uh mandate and saying this is just
a way for Worsh to buy himself some
time. He's going to rethink what the
inflation mandate looks like. He's going
to think more differently about what
data to to to look at. think more about
Fed communication. We think that that is
just another signal that Wars is someone
who wants to step in there and get the
job done. And if he can get in there, do
75 basis points of hikes, reverse what
the Fed did last year in terms of those
insurance cuts that we saw, it gets the
Fed back to a better place where they
can say, "We've delivered now on this
inflation mandate, and we can cut rates
back down to wherever they think neutral
is." What do you think will be the
trigger in terms of the data that we're
going to be getting not just today but
over the next few weeks that will allow
the Fed to actually take action as soon
as July?
>> Lisa, I think it just has to be similar
to what we've been seeing in recent
months. Break even payrolls creation
everyone has been thinking is very very
low. Payroll's numbers on a three-month
a basis have been you know more than
double close to triple what many
economists were expecting in terms of
what that break even number is. we see
another strong payrolls print. That's a
go sign for for us from the Fed. It's
also of course going to come down to the
inflation data and of you know a big
issue here that we that we get push back
on is certainly in coming months month
overmonth CPI PCE is going to be
negative uh on on a headline basis. But
what the market's got to very quickly
then do is take the CPI data as it has
been doing and try to imply what that
means for PCE. and we'll get the data
this morning, but it does seem to us
like it's going to be a signal that the
Fed is needs to get out from from behind
the curve.
>> How many hikes are you expecting before
the midterm election?
>> Well, we we're expecting the the Fed to
go in September, October, so ultimately
50 basis points. Um it's not it's not
really in our view this importance of
midterms. It's this acknowledgement of
the issue for voters more broadly that
inflation has been one of the key
leading issues around consumer
sentiment.
>> Y
>> everyone knows that the Fed knows that
uh and they need to get their
credibility back.
>> The White House would like long rates
down, not just short rates. Y
>> long rates are coming in relative to the
move we're seeing in twos. When you sit
with the team right now, how does your
outlook for short rates inform your
outlook for long rates?
>> So it's it's quite different right now.
Uh when we think about curve moves,
everyone in on on our team is much more
so in this flattener camp. I actually
just recommended a trade this morning to
actually implement this flattener trade
in real yields versus nominals because
if we do see the Fed getting out from
behind the curve on inflation, there's
actually more room that inflation
compensation, the way the market prices
that can decline. Um and we we do see in
periods of time where the Fed is hiking
to offset these inflationary pressures,
real yield curve can invert. So for us,
it's more of a story that frontend rates
are moving higher versus 10ear rates. If
the Fed if the market takes this Fed
messaging as they're going to get in
there, they're going to quickly hike.
then it allows them to get back to
neutral in in later years. It may
actually result in a twist flattening of
the curve where you have front end rates
moving higher and and 10 year and out
rates moving lower.
>> Thoughtful stuff, Megan, thank you.
Megan Swiper there of Bank of America.
We've seen that flattening come to this
market.
>> Yeah. Not though with real yields. Just
to pick up on what Megan was talking
about, right now 10ear real yields are
about 2.2%. They're close to that high
point level that we saw uh back in 2023
of 2.5%. You could argue this is part of
what we're seeing with the wobbles going
on in some of the risk assets. If you
start to see that come in and you get
that curve flattening to potentially get
to that inversion. That's fascinating.
It gives you a sense of uh how the Fed
might be thinking about this too.
Actually,
>> something to look for going into year
end potentially and over the next few
months. The task force, not just a
talking shop, not just designed to delay
time, at least in the opinion, the view
of Bank of America, designed to get
things done. If this president wants to
get rates lower and he's talking about
10-year yields, then this might be the
only way to do it is to potentially hike
[music] rates in the front end.
>> Did Bessant allude to that this week?
>> Yeah,
>> kind [music] of.
>> Yeah. Howitzer
>> kind of
>> kind of.
>> Coming up, Lizanne Sanders of Charles
Swab, the former New York Fed President
Bill Dudley, Stephanie Roth of Wolf
Research, Darius Dale of 42 Macro. All
of that in the third act of Bloomberg
Surveillance just around the corner.
It's up next.
Right now, the problem is inflation.
>> We've been flagging the breath of
inflationary pressures for some time.
>> The FOMC has to be particularly
attentive to its mandate around price
stability.
>> The economy is going to strengthen.
inflation probably is going to slow
down.
>> Our view is [music] that we're going to
see peak rates and peak inflation in the
second quarter of this year.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now
and your scores. The price action looks
like this. Segary futures up [music]
by6% on the S&P 500 up by 2% on the
Nasdaq thanks to this move. Micron
[music] in the pre-market flying all
morning up by 17% so far and the outlook
for stocks apparently [music] is getting
better and better. We've had upgrades to
price targets at Wells Fargo at Barclays
at JP Morgan. Now Sockjet [music] taking
its S&P 500 target to 8K. What's
fascinating is you haven't seen
participation in some of [music] the
biggest names out there. You've seen
some of the biggest hyperscalers
actually losing tremendous value over
the past month even [music] as you see
the equal weight outperforming up a
percent. You have the likes of Microsoft
down 18%, Oracle down 30%, Google down
8% so far in June. Nonetheless, people
are looking at the rotation. People are
looking at the profits. People are
looking at Micron and the other
semiconductors, Western Digital, etc.
And they're saying, you know what, there
still is upside [music] here because it
is real. And if you doubt that it's
real, take a look at Micron earnings and
weep because ultimately it is delivering
in the 85% [music] margins.
>> That's the tech trade. Let's get to the
bank story. Check out JP Morgan in the
pre-market. These headlines [music] just
crossing the Bloomberg terminal. There
was a time right before Lloyd Blankfine
steps aside that a race started between
[music] two co-presidents. Going into
that, JP Morgan making a similar
announcement, Lisa, this [music]
morning.
>> Yeah. Doug Pnau and uh Troy Roarbau are
named co-presidents. Maryanne Lake has
decided to retire. Uh what we're hearing
is that Troy Warau will be the CEO of
consumer and community banking. [music]
Uh what we see from Doug Pnau is going
to he's going to be CEO of commercial
and in the investment bank. This comes
of course as people are thinking about
the succession of Jamie Diamond as CEO.
There have been a number of people who
have been elevated. [music] Right now we
have to imagine that Doug Pnau and Troy
Roarbau are squarely in the lead to
overtake that seauite position.
>> At least you know the bank well.
Typically when you speak to Jamie
[music] Diamond we've all seen him asked
the question repeatedly how much longer.
He will say 5 years. 5 years after those
headlines. What do you think the
response would be this morning?
>> You [music] know he's already moved back
from that. He said he still has a lot of
leeway. Of course, there is also a
question of whether he could remain
chairman. Well, a new CEO [music] comes
in because right now Jamie Diamond is
chair and CEO. We have seen a number of
other banks take moves to create [music]
a succession plan and then get the
person in place over the past couple of
years. The speculation is going to be
very hot, especially [music] because
these two individuals uh were pegged as
likely successors in the past along with
a few others. It seems [music] like the
crew is narrowing down
>> and the move from Marian Lake kind of
speaks for itself, doesn't it? She's not
going to be it and that is what people
are going to assume. [music]
>> JP Morgan in the pre-market up by about
a third of 1%. More details on that for
you when we get them. [music] Coming up
this hour, we'll catch up with Lisan
Sanders of Charles Swab with the AI
trade bouncing back. The former New York
Fed President Bill Dudley on the risk
behind the Fed chair's new playbook.
Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research reacting
to the latest inflation data. That
inflation data about 26 minutes away. We
just had a conversation around the table
about three hikes this year with Bank of
America. They're looking for those hikes
to start maybe as soon as July
>> and that would following C that would
follow core PCE coming in what is
expected to be 4.1% the hottest level
the fastest pace of acceleration going
back to April of 2023.
>> Let's begin this out with stocks gaining
after micron earnings sparked a new wave
of momentum for the tech trade. Lisanne
Saunders of Charles Swab noting there is
same bus risk from enormous
concentration in narrow cluster of semis
hyperscalers and memory chip makers.
Lzanne joins us now for more. And Lzan,
whenever you get the jitters, everyone
wants off the bus and then you get a
rally on a stock like Micron, everyone
wants off again. How concerned are
people out there about being in the same
trade?
>> Um, well, I think many of the the
cohorts, institutional cohorts that play
off of each other's positioning, uh,
systematics, long short hedge fund
community, the commodity trading
advisors, and then I would put the
retail trader in the mix too. They are
they are playing actually crowded trades
and and and looking to potentially press
some some shorts and that is really
short attention span money moving
rapidly and that's why you're seeing
these incredible rotations under the
surface and it's now happening at that
sub sector even subindustry level and I
think that kind of backdrop in this
environment of short- termism with
narratives that can change really
quickly or you get an earnings report
like we did last night and it's just
rapid ire movement of money.
>> Lzan, when it comes to the fundamentals,
and I know lots of leverage has been
built up around the fundamentals, but
let's focus on the fundamentals. We're
asking the question, look at the
spenders. They're under pressure. Meta,
Microsoft, the stocks are in bare
markets. When do they pull back on the
capex? And the takeaway, the reaction
we've had this morning, Lesan, is
ultimately this runway for this spending
is longer than you think it is. These
themes can carry on. There's a lot of
oxygen still left up here. Do you see it
quite the same way? I
>> I do. I think the runway is long for
spending based on the demand side of the
equation. I think what we're starting to
face now though are constraints as it
relates to inputs and and costs. And at
the corporate level, the the sort of
utilizers of AI and the spenders on AI
from an enterprise standpoint, you're
now finding that there's starting to be
a little bit of a push back because
costs have gone up so much. In fact, you
guys know Rick Worster, our CEO. He and
I had an interesting exchange, email
exchange last week talking about in some
cases now there's the reassessment of
the cost of human capital um maybe in
relative terms looking somewhat
inexpensive. So I think that's the stage
we're in right now.
>> Lzanne, how do you view the hyperscalers
that are being beaten up as they are the
spenders on all of this capex that it
seems to be just ever growing?
>> They're the dull new objects. If you
look at a cohort like the Magnificent 7,
uh those stocks from a price performance
standpoint, the best performer, which is
Alphabet, isn't even in the top 200 of
S&P 500 performance. And when you talk
about contribution to return, um because
you have the multiplier of their
extremely large cap size, you don't even
have any of the seven in the top 10 in
terms of contribution to return. And I
think there's finally an awakening to
this shift in focus away from those
early players of the AI trade. Um it's
still embedded in a lot of the
concentration that exists in portfolios,
but you're starting to see increased
pressure because of that desire to
rotate into more attractive areas.
>> It's more attractive areas in whether
it's the memory chips or other areas
that are supply constrained that are
related to the tech trade. But it's
beyond that also to the concept of the
efficiencies that are built from AI and
and others. I'm just wondering how much
the broadening out trade hinges on the
Fed remaining on hold on inflation going
back down on the acceleration that we
expect later today to be the peak of
where we are in terms of price
increases.
So I I think the market has embedded in
its expectations now that the Fed is um
at best on hold and obviously the market
pricing in hikes and you do see some
rotation to take advantage of where
there's um sort of more or less
correlation to the the rate cycle. Um
it's also the case though that this
broadening out is not just within the AI
space. It's more broadly within the
market. Part of the reason why the
Russell 2000 is so handily outperforming
the S&P is because it's got exposure in
areas like healthcare and biotech. And I
think that that's an interesting story
that's being less told right now. Over
the last year, it's singledigit
percentage of of S&P stocks that have
outperformed the index itself. Over the
past months, it's 60% of S&P stocks have
outperformed the index itself. You've
had these down days where you've had
positive breadth. I think that's an
interesting story that's getting told
under the surface of these cap weighted
indexes.
>> Lzan, though, what kind of stock market
could we see if we get the three hikes
that Bank of America just told us
they're expecting two before the midterm
election, November?
>> Um, I think the market would probably
have to go through a digestion phase if
it is three hikes. I I think that
there's still sort of this hope that the
inflation fighting credibility that
Kevin Worsh obviously expressed that
that may be enough to restrain things
and if you if you see some volatility in
the market, you can see financial
conditions tighten in a way that maybe
takes a little bit of that pressure off
the Fed. But notwithstanding a different
look to the Fed under Kevin Worsh, the
bottom line is they're still data
dependent. So with every data point that
we get in more so on the inflation side
of the dual mandate, maybe a little bit
less on the labor market side, unless
you get an extreme move in the labor
market, either toward the positive or
toward the negative. I think those
expectations around Fed policy are going
to continue to jump around.
>> Lan, just to wrap things up on the
disconnect between crude and what's
happened with rates, what's your
reaction been to that? And does it
complicate the broadening gap story?
I think there may be something to the
notion that even though the the move
significantly higher in oil prices did
not cause a major strain on the economy.
I think there's validity to the idea
that maybe lower oil, lower gas prices
in an environment where consumers still
obviously want to spend that that could
provide a little bit of boost to the
economy which could in turn exacerbate
the inflation problem. Not to mention
the fact that there are inflation
feeders that are not just oil. AI is an
inflation story. money supply is an
inflation story. So I think that's
what's getting built into expectations
here.
>> Lisan, appreciate your time as always.
Lisan Sandlers of Charles Swap joining
us on a rates market on equities going
into PC data in about 20 minutes time.
>> Yeah, and a rook key question here is
how much has the market already baked in
the expectation of true rate hikes on
the heels of what a lot of people are
expecting is incredibly hot core PC.
>> Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Some breaking
news crossing just moments ago. Vonnie
Quinn has more. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Yeah, a change at the top of
JP Morgan. The bank announcing Troy
Roarba and Doug Petnau the co- CEOs of
the commercial and investment bank will
become co-presidents of the company
effective immediately. Marian Lake,
currently CEO of the Consumer and
Community Bank, is retiring after more
than 25 years with the company.
President Donald Trump criticizing big
oil, accusing firms of overcharging
consumers. [music]
Gasoline prices should be much lower at
the pump and the oil companies are
possibly gouging. I hope they're not.
Otherwise, they're going to be in big
trouble. They're going to be in big
trouble. We're not going to play games.
>> The president ordering the DOJ to
investigate the company, saying gas
should be $225 a gallon, not $4, which
is currently the national average.
Aries's flagship private credit fund
capping redemptions at 5% again. The
fund saw requests to withdraw more than
14% of shares outstanding as of April
30th. [music] The announcement follows
similar moves in the private credit
market. And that is your Bloomberg BR.
>> Hey Vonyie, thank you. I appreciate the
update. Let's get to JP Morgan in the
pre-market. Check it out. I was seeing a
big move here. We're up by about a tenth
of 1% but I think you see a big
development in the seauite and the
future leadership of this company.
>> Yeah, it had been five people who
[music] had been elevated and it seemed
to have been some sort of race and
people wanted to sort of try out for the
job in real time. Now we have a
whittling down and it seems like there
are two people left. Doug Pnau and Troy
Warau who both are being elevated to uh
to be co-presidents of [music] JP
Morgan. This is what the race is.
Mariana Lake who has been with JP Morgan
for more than 25 years will [music]
retire according to the statement. A
really key question in the succession
race at [music] the US's biggest bank.
>> Are we down to two? We've played this
game quite a few times. It certainly
feels like we're down to two.
>> It feels like we're down to two. And I
[music] think that this is the
suggestion. I mean, unless there's some
kind of sleeping dark horse in the in
the corner, which I'm sure that if you
talk to any of these individuals,
they'll say, "Look, we're not going to
get complacent. [music] We also are just
going to rise to the occasion and not
focus on it dayto-day, etc., even if
somebody's trying to, you know, kind of
wiggle it."
>> We'll come back to that story a little
bit later this morning. Up next, we'll
get you some morning calls. Plus, we'll
catch up with the former New York Fed
President, Bill Dudley, and why Fed
Chair Kevin Walsh shouldn't let markets
[music] call the shots. Live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
the choke point sort of exists
throughout [music] the supply chain
right now. Memory is obviously the
biggest one. Anthropic told you that
very loudly a few weeks ago. They had
the opportunity to to choose [music]
strategic partners. They could have
picked anyone they wanted. They chose
three. Samsung, Micron, and Heinets.
Anyone who's surprised by what's
happening with Micron today and what's
been happening with high bandwidth
memory didn't pay attention to what
Anthropic told them.
>> There are many people surprised
evidenced by the move in Micron this
morning. So [music] clearly many people
weren't paying attention. That was Heath
Terry of City. myself included might be
equity futures this morning on the S&P
500 up by 610 of 1% on the NASDAQ up by
two percentage points we'll get to
[music] micron in just a moment just
wanted to pick up on another developing
story just getting those breaking
headlines moments ago on JP [music]
Morgan a shakeup in the seauite two
co-presidents stock is up by.5% this
[music] will get people talking on Wall
Street about getting closer to that
moment for Jamie Diamond [music] to
depart
>> yeah and does he depart as chair and CEO
etc etc does it matter either way. Doug
Pnau and Troy Roau squarely in the hot
seat in a competition for who is going
to be the next CEO. I'm sure the
speculation will continue [music] that
the race is now down to two and that if
the race is down to two, they're getting
closer to some sort of succession.
>> Gets awkward quickly. Saw this with
Schwarz saw this with Solomon at the
time. Harvey Schwarz, David Solomon over
at Goldman Sachs under Lloyd Blankfine.
That didn't last too long
>> that you have to [music] pick one and
the other one leaves typically because
either you're going to be the CEO or
you're going to go to greener pastures.
The fact that we saw one of the
individuals who was named as a potential
successor, Marian Lake, drop out gives
that suggestion that now it is being
whittleled down. But yes, [music] it
does get awkward. So this can only last
so long.
>> Stock is up by.5%. The other name of
course the name driving price action
this morning. The number one is Micron.
Micron having a massive session so far
going into the opening bell. That stock
is up so far this morning by [music]
17%. Let's get you some morning calls
with one stock in focus. Micron. First
up, Melius doubling its price target to
a street high 2200 after the company
shattered earnings expectations. Your
second call from JP Morgan nearly
tripling its price target saying the
company's [music] multi-year customer
deals mark a fundamental transformation.
And your third and final call from Bed
more than doubling its price [music]
target, saying the customer agreements
provide visibility to multiple
expansion. They weren't paying attention
either.
>> I mean, honestly, it seems like paying
attention isn't good enough. You need to
be able to price out an exponential
[music] type of progression and everyone
knows that's very difficult to do.
>> Just a fantastic move on that name so
far this morning. Let's send back to the
Fed because in 12 minutes time we'll be
talking about inflation. Chair Kevin
Walsh making changes at the central bank
limited forward guidance creating task
forces and putting even more weight on
signals from financial markets. The
former New York Fed President Bill
Dudley Wang in writing this. A fresh
look is appropriate but this needs to be
done with greater care than wash has
shown to date. Bill joins us now for
more. Bill, welcome to the show. It's
nice to reflect on these kind of things
with you. So, thanks for being with us.
What are you reflecting on right now?
What are you concerned about as this
comes together?
>> What I'm concerned about is that I'm
perfectly fine with getting rid of Ford
guns, but what I'm concerned about is
Borch is not disclosing what his
monetary policy reaction function is. In
other words, how would the Fed adjust
policy as the economic environment
changes? And I think that's a big
mistake. the idea that you can rely on
financial markets to tell you what you
should do in terms of monetary policy,
that won't work because markets priced
to what they think the Fed will do. So,
if the Fed's looking at the markets and
the markets are looking at the Fed, how
is policy actually set? Um, it's really
important in the United States that
markets understand how the Fed's going
to react because monetary policy works
mainly through financial conditions, the
effects of short-term rates on bonds,
stocks, credit spreads, the dollar. So
if the markets don't understand what the
Fed is doing, uh those markets aren't
going to be priced appropriately
relative to what the Fed's actually
going to do. And that's going to both
slow down the transmission of monetary
policy to the real economy, but it's
also going to make it less, you know,
less less efficient. So it seems to me
like you got to provide more guidance
about how you're actually going to react
if things evolve differently than you
anticipate.
>> To your point, Bill, I think you're
picking up on a tension we all witnessed
in the news conference. He seemed to
find it difficult to separate forward
guidance from communicating,
articulating a reaction function. Where
do you think that came from? Why is that
difficult? Do you think it's
straightforward?
>> I think it's straightforward. I mean, I
think forward guidance is is really
basically saying here's what we expect
to do next. The monetary policy reaction
function isn't about what we're going to
do next. It's about how we would react
to different sorts of incoming
information. So, I think he needs to
distinguish between those two things.
right now. I don't really understand how
he how he expects to set monetary
policy. The job of monetary policy is
the Fed's job, not the market job. And
so, the Feds needs to do its job.
>> Part of uh his argument perhaps just
being generous might be that their task
force is for that and essentially they
have to understand what data they're
looking at before they understand
exactly how they should react. Do you
buy that argument?
>> Well, obviously it makes sense to take a
fresh look at what data is available. Uh
but at the end of the day, these task
forces have a finite life. I mean, the
Fed has basically got to conduct
monetary policy not just over the next
six months, but over the next number of
years. So, I think the reliance on task
forces, maybe it buys him some time to
think about what he really wants to do.
Uh but at the end of the day, these task
forces are not a replacement for the Fed
communicating about how it's going to
act as economic conditions change. Right
now, Bill, when you take a look at the
inflation rate, when you take a look at
the oil input, but also the broadening
as we're seeing it in core uh PCE, which
we're going to get in about nine minutes
time, do you think it is appropriate for
them to hike at least once, if not twice
or three times this year?
>> Well, I think that the case for monetary
policy becoming a bit tighter is pretty
pretty compelling to me for two reasons.
Number one, we've been at this level of
rates or higher for three years and the
economy is still at a 4.3% unemployment
rate. So what's the evidence that
monetary policy is restrictive and
second financial conditions are really
accommodative? The board uh has this a
model of financial conditions and right
now it shows the impulse to growth over
the next year is over 1% positive on GDP
growth. That's the highest since late
2001 early 2022.
So I think that easy financial
conditions, no evidence that monetary
policy is restrictive at time that
you've missed your target for more than
five years uh does create the a strong
argument for tightening monetary policy.
I'm aligned with, you know, Alberto
Muslim, Lori Logan. Uh but what but what
I think doesn't really matter. It's
really what Kevin Worch is ultimately
going to do. One thing that's going to
help a little bit in his, you know,
giving him a little bit more time is
this is probably the really last bad
headline inflation report we're going to
have for a while. uh because with the
decline in oil prices when we get the
inflation data for June uh headline
inflation at both the CPI and PC level
is going to decline quite significantly.
>> But what about the housing market? Isn't
it still fair to say what we have is
highly restrictive for housing.
>> Well, I think housing is not doing well
for for a couple reasons. Uh the main
reason though is lack of demand because
we don't have any labor force growth. So
if you if you don't have labor force
growth, you don't have household
formation. If you don't have household
formation, you don't have a lot of
demand for houses. Uh there's also an
affordability issue in terms of what you
know what level of income you have to
achieve to be able to buy a house. Uh
but I don't think you know you look at
mortgage rates are mortgage rates
particularly high. I mean they're
they're high relative to the last 15
years or so. But if you go back prior to
the great financial crisis, you know,
mortgage rates in the 6 and a half%
range, no one would view that as
particularly high. Well, it is high
though if you're sitting on a 3% rate
and you refuse to move because then it
doesn't offer up a lot more housing for
everyone else.
>> Well, there's a lock in effect that
people are, you know, deciding not to
move because they don't want to lose the
advantage of those very low mortgage
rates. But if they move, uh they're
they're demanding another house. So, I'm
not sure that, you know, that really is
going to have a big effect on uh housing
affordability. The big big question I
think for housing affordability is what
can you do about zoning? what can you do
about land use uh to basically allow
more homes to actually be produced?
Increasing the supply of housing would
then weigh on housing prices and that
would make housing more affordable. But
I don't think it's really a big interest
rate problem, frankly.
>> Bill, just a final thread, few questions
just on this institution. You've worked
at it a long time from your position at
the New York Fed going down to
Washington on so many occasions. How
easy is it to change this institution?
Well, there's a certainly a lot of uh in
inertia in the sense that you have staff
that are there going to be there a lot
longer than Kevin Worsh is going to be
there for example. Uh and the staff has
a lot of pride in their their work and
they and deservedly so because they have
a tremendous amount of expertise. But
you can definitely move things if you
have a better mousetrap. When I went
when I went down to the New York Fed
after the first day when I second day I
was president of the New York Fed, I
basically said my mantra is best idea
wins. best idea that people come up with
should actually dominate regardless of
where it comes from. And I think the the
the board staff, the staffs of the
Federal Reserve Banks really subscribe
to that. So if Kevin Warish and the task
force has come up with better ideas, I
think those best ideas will actually
win.
>> Bill, it's good to see you. It always
is. Thank you, sir. Former New York Fed
President Bill Dudley on this Federal
Reserve. Can I give this inflation print
in about five minutes time? And as Bill
pointed out, this could be the worst one
and then we move on to better prints in
the months ahead given this move in
energy. Better is a relative term
though, especially when we're talking
about the highest inflation going back
to April of 2023. And would that be
enough? I mean, I'm thinking about Bill
Dudley being sympathetic with the Lori
Logans of the world saying and the Beth
Hammocks of the world saying he would be
in favor of tightening policy. Does it
matter what Kevin Worsh thinks if a
number of the committee members are in
favor of say raising rates as soon as
July like Bank of America thinks?
>> I'm hoping to be talking about threes
and not fours, but threes are still a
problem.
>> Yeah. But this is the point is that we
haven't seen it come down and [music] it
is accelerating in a number of different
places
>> and we are looking for a four handle in
just a moment on PCE [music]
year-over-year. That break inflation
data just around the corner. Stephanie
Roth of Wolf Research joins us to
[music] break it down. That data a few
minutes away.
The up about 60 minutes away. [music]
The data is 20 seconds away. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 positive by6. On
the NASDAQ, some real outperformance.
The Nasdaq 100 up by two percentage
points. [music] In the bond market, we
won't be talking about micron. We'll be
talking about PCE in just a moment.
Yields up by a single basis point. the
2-year around 415 up a basis point or
2110s to 441 with the economic data.
Let's cross over to Ender Karen for
more. Ender that data back to cross any
moment now.
>> Yeah, so we're seeing a fall in personal
spending but on the core PCE index on
month up 0.3% John that's in line and
the headline basis on month up 0.4 just
a touch below expectations. So looking
on the monthly numbers for PCE um either
coming in line or touch below perhaps
hinting at not as bad a story as some
concern but nonetheless these numbers do
confirm that uh PCE which is the Fed's
preferred inflation gauge remains well
above where they wanted to be well above
their target. We know some of this story
is down to airline fairs to portfolio
fees import costs and healthcare costs
have been part of it. We'll have to see.
We'll have to break down the detail as
we go. But these numbers, as I say to
you, more or less in line, but certainly
not where the Fed would want them to be,
and it leans into this new hawkish
narrative that we have.
>> Expectations matter. Small downside
surprise on headline, opening the door
to this move at the front end of the
yield curve. Yields were pushing just a
little bit higher by basis point. Now
they're dropping by about two basis
points at the front end of the curve.
Check it out. Two's down by two to three
basis points at the moment. So back down
to 412. In the last few days, we were
looking at 420. So that's a real
repricing at the front end of the curve.
Yields down. That unlocks this move at
the equity market level. Equity futures
pushing higher once again up by8% now on
the S&P 500. Up by 2.4 on the NASDAQ
100. An early move as we often say on
this program, not always the right one,
but this is the early move off the back
of this small downside surprise on PC.
>> Yeah, people uh were worried that
potentially it could show signs of
acceleration. We really have to dig into
the details to understand where some of
the inflationary inputs are. Just to
give the exact numbers, 3.4% 4% core PCE
on a year-over-year basis. That would be
the highest since November of 2023. The
headline PCE price index coming in at
4.1%. That's the highest going back to
April of 2023. Again, it matters the
components. How much is this is going to
fade? And can that give you true relief
that the Fed can look past this even
though we still are way above that 2%
target?
>> And the four is bad, three is not great,
but is this as bad as it gets looking
out through the summer now given the
developments we're seeing in energy?
Well, that is the big question, John.
So, you know, to your point, these
numbers are for May. It's ahead of the
Iran deal. Whatever one's views on that
are, if that energy story holds and
plays out, we're obviously going to see
wild swings on headline inflation and
obviously that will trickle through uh
through the inflation story. But
nonetheless, these numbers where we are
right here, right now are probably the
reason why Fed officials are looking at
PCE with a three handle by the end of
the year. Even if the in energy story
holds together, will it be enough to get
PCE, you know, back below three and
heading towards its target? That remains
a big ask, John, because it's not just
energy. Remember, there's the AI story,
there are pockets of services inflation,
and there's the rental disinflation
story, which hasn't gone away. So I
think right here, right now, the the
inflation s remains an open book leaning
towards the hawkish side of the debate.
>> And it's good to see you. It always is.
Thank you, sir. And the current of
Bloomberg News down in Washington, DC.
Good to see personal income and personal
spending coming stronger than expected
as well. We better even talk about
jobless claims at 8:30 on a Thursday
morning these days because you can guess
where jobless claims are. 215. I'm not
even looking. What are we? 215. I
looked. 225. The right kind [laughter]
of downside surprise. Yeah, you you must
have looked, but at the same time, you
would be uh forgiven for just assuming
that it was right around there. And that
is coming down. Again, you're not seeing
signs of that. The fact that personal
income, just to sort of reiterate what
you were just saying, John, coming in
hotter than expected at 0.7% versus 0.4%
gives you a sense that maybe there is
heat under the market. We know there are
a lot of ways to read this. The
components really matter.
>> Equity futures up by point8. On the
NASDAQ, we're up by 2.3%. Let's get to
the details. Stephanie Roth of Wolf
Research joins us around the table.
Stephanie, good morning. Good morning.
>> You had a chance to look at the details.
How bad is this? How much better is it
than expected?
>> I mean, I think it's certainly better to
see that core your core PC number came
in lighter than I would say even though
it met consensus. There were many out
there that feared it would be rounding
up closer to uh point4% which was a
legitimate risk. So, if you look at core
infl core core PC inflation, it came in
at 32. uh there were many that were
thinking it would come in above that
0.35 which then which which would push
it up to point4. So I think that's some
of the market's reaction because it was
I guess the worst case scenario would
have been avoided. Now the question of
course is on a go forward basis what are
we going to see in terms of the
inflation data. Now much of it much of
the impact on core is not really related
to the Iran war. It's not really related
to energy prices. It's been a
combination of lingering lingering
tariff effects AI importantly and then
of course you have the Iran war. So the
next couple of months are you going to
see a notable disinflation? You kind of
need to see core PC running 02 or below
for the Fed to feel more comfortable in
this environment.
>> So Stephanie, this is important because
we've noticed the same thing in
financial markets, a disconnect between
the move in crude and the move in
interest rates. And what you can see is
a massive round trip on crude wiping out
all the wartime gains. And yields at the
front end of the curve are still higher
by 70 basis points relative to where
they were at the end of February before
this war started. there is a belief this
Fed still hikes even if this inflation
data improves from the fours down to the
threes. Do you see it the same way?
>> Yeah, I think I think we're in an
environment where
there's not that much time for the Fed
to be able to feel comfortable about the
inflation path and and Cher W last week
kind of set up set the stage for you
know we'll see what happens in six
weeks. Is the data going to be better
enough in six weeks for them to feel
better and again you maybe in maybe in
September. So our base case is that the
Fed will ultimately stay on hold and
it'll be the markets doing the work. But
the path has gotten a lot narrower for
that. You really need to see all of the
inflation prints, you know, surprise to
the downside from here. You need to see
a bit of a rising unemployment rate as
you often do in the summer. But if if
every single data point doesn't fall in
line, then the Fed is going to go.
>> Is this a sign that the Fed is actually
easy on the mon monetary policy? that
not only is the rate not restrictive,
but it actually is accommodative in the
face of the buildout of AI, or do you
think that this is exogenous factors
that are creeping in or that are just
one two punches, whether it's the
tariffs or whether it's the oil prices
or whether it's some of the AI inputs?
If the Fed hikes one or two times, even
three times, that's not going to impact
the AI trade, right? AI is still going
to be an important force for the
economy. So, it's a lot of I guess to to
your point, it's somewhat exogenous
factors that don't really rely on, you
know, the the level of interest rate so
precisely. It doesn't really matter
because the ROI on this investment is so
so much higher than the current level of
interest rate that it doesn't really
matter. These projects are going to get
done. The investment is going to happen
and and growth is going to be quite, you
know, quite solid. And then, of course,
you you know, you were talking earlier
on the show, housing is still an issue,
but it's a, you know, relatively small
part of the economy and everything else
is running relatively firm. So, can we
make any conclusions about the Fed's
policy rate and its influence over the
inflation or right now are these two
kind of diverse from each other? Are
they kind of speaking to another another
era that has become obsolete kind of in
in support of these task forces that are
going to reassess exactly what the role
is of this institution?
>> Yeah, I mean interest rates still
matter. So to the extent that it matters
for financial conditions, if they, you
know, end up falling through with with
the, you know, the the couple of rates
hikes that are that are priced in, you
know, let's say they even do two, that
would at least match what market is
market's pricing and that could sort of
keep financial conditions stable. They
don't really want to be easing financial
conditions in this environment. So
surprising in a doubbish way at this at
this point could just fuel some
additional inflationary pressure
specifically coming from risk assets.
But that said, you know, rates are not
that restrictive for most of the
economy. But some of it just has to kind
of run its course. The AI stuff is sort
of a short-term trend that is very
important and eventually it will be
disinflationary. At the moment it is
inflationary.
>> How weak would the labor market have to
be for the Fed either to stay on hold or
consider maybe even bringing up a cut?
>> So in order for them to stay on hold, I
think you need to see, you know, 44 over
the summer, maybe four five on on the
unemployment rate. for them to be
considering a cut I think it needs to be
notably higher than that and then seeing
signs of disinflationary core PC running
you know in the below point notably
below 02% and the unemployment rate
really starting to to head significantly
higher and payroll surprises the
downside. Now this is the whole big
story to get to a a place where they're
cutting. It's a really difficult story
to tell how they actually get to those
cuts, but it would be an environment
where the labor market surprises in a
meaningful way and it's kind of hard to
see that momentum deteriorate so
quickly.
>> Bill Dudley was with us 15 minutes ago.
Bill reacted the same way many people
did to the news conference. Why did the
new Fed chair find it difficult to draw
a distinction between offering forward
guidance and articulating the reaction
function of the committee?
>> I think he didn't want he didn't want to
make any promises. He also didn't want
to commit to to hikes especially at the
first meeting. But it was interesting
that Trump during that meeting made the
comment about you know whatever that
what you know whatever that they're
they're doing whatever they are doing in
this meeting and you know maybe the hype
rates it doesn't really matter. Uh so it
was interesting to see that he backed
off because that was a that was a big
argument many people were making for for
Worish coming in and being a more dovish
chair and
>> but he didn't back off yesterday. The
president literally said, "Low interest
rates will solve everything. Get the
interest rates down."
>> But he he at least he he he didn't
attack Worsh in that moment. Of course,
he still he's still, you know, always
going to be a low interest rate guy, but
the fact that in the first meeting he
didn't start the path of of of going
after Worsh is notable because that at
least separates the two. He's always
going to want low interest rates and,
you know, eventually maybe they can get
there, but this is not the environment
for that. We saw the same thing from the
Treasury Secretary, that's for sure,
earlier this week at the Economic Club
in New York event here in New York City.
Stephanie, it's good to see you. Thanks
for being here. Thanks for having
>> Stephanie Roth there of Wolf Research.
Following this data, the preferred read
on inflation for the Federal Reserve, at
least for now, because that might change
later in the summer. PCE coming in at
the strongest level going back to 2023,
spring of 23, April to be precise. So
right now I'm looking at some of the
components under PCE and what actually
uh was the acceleration services came in
uh pretty hot contributing a significant
portion of that also non-durable goods.
Uh so when you take a look at this it
doesn't look like this is as much
directly related to oil prices as other
factors. This is sort of the spreading
out the broadening out in services side
inflation that has the likes of Austin
Goulby concerned and you see that in a
lot of this data. Speaking of higher
prices, this from Apple. The team just
breaking the numbers for us. It comes
from Apple raising prices on Mac, iPad.
Across the board, you're seeing these
prices to counter the cost of memory and
the memory shortage. This is the Micron
story in many ways as well. And this
stock is down by 410 of 1%. But that's
the reality from the AI spend that we're
seeing, that theme, the expense we're
seeing, and the pass through to the end
consumer. If you bought MacBook Air a
couple days ago, then congratulations.
You avoided a $200 increase for that
MacBook Air because that price is
increasing to $12.99 from $1,099.
MacBook Neo similar. Look, this again
goes to the way that the AI trade is
leading to inflation. As Stephanie was
just saying, it is leading to real
near-term inflation that you're seeing
show up in consumer goods. Now, the big
question here is, do you get demand
destruction from this or do you
ultimately just get people saying, "Ugh,
really?" again and then flunking down
their plastic.
>> Look at the commentary from the company.
Rapid expansion of AI data centers
created a memory surge. We've never seen
a component price increase this much
this quickly.
>> Yeah. Kaching Micron. I mean, it's sort
of an example of how quickly they were
able to raise prices in 85% margins. But
this again, how much are we going to see
this not just in Apple, but also in
cars, also in any other component that
you end up buying, any other consumer
electronic that requires memory? Tim
Cook did warn us in an interview
recently in the Wall Street Journal. He
said it's unavoidable when it comes to
raising the price of iPhones and now
it's the whole suite of Apple products.
I hear this and hear what they're saying
in terms of this is because of the AI
buildout. This is another reason why the
American voter in November is going to
hate these AI companies and want them
addressed. They want data centers in
their backyard. They want their
electricity prices going up and no one
wants to spend more on their iPhone.
>> How much longer can this go on? There is
some runway here. We've been told that
repeatedly and Apple is telling you
something similar this morning.
>> Yeah, we're not at a point where we're
saying this is going to end anytime
soon. The company was saying that
they've shielded their consumers for
months now with absorbing the price
increases. They can't. And they said
ultimately these constraints are going
to last for a long time. We've heard the
same thing from Micron. And guess what I
mean? This is why you could get
hoarding. This is why people might say,
"Oh, that's not great, but if you get in
now it's going to raise another people."
Who's hoarding?
>> You nailed that right, Bram. We'll give
you that one. That's one thing I've
actually
>> Apple this morning is down by about 3/4
to 1%. Micron is surging. Equity futures
this morning up by 0.8%. PCE on one read
at least. A small downside surprise
relative to expectations. That unlocks
this move at the front end of the yield
curve down by five basis points. On
twos, your 2-year a break of 4.1% so far
this morning. The opening bout about 47
minutes away for equities. Let's give
you an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Ronnie Quinn has more. Oh, hey Vonyie.
>> Hey John. So recapping the data we just
got. PCE the Fed's preferred inflation
gauge meeting estimates jumping.3% for
the month of May. [music] Jobless claims
coming in at 215,000 last week below the
estimated 225,000
and personal spending for the month
exceeding estimates rising.3%
versus the expected 2%.
A change at the top of JP Morgan. The
bank announcing Troy Roarbo and Doug
Petnau, the co-CEOs of the commercial
and investment bank will become
co-presidents of the company effective
immediately. Marian Lake, currently CEO
of Consumer and Community Bank, [music]
is retiring the move, fueling
speculation about who will eventually
replace CEO Jamie Diamond.
Ford, named the top mainstream brand for
new vehicle quality by JD Power for the
first time since 2010. Bloomberg's Matt
Miller spoke to Ford CEO Jim Farley and
asked him about the [music] company's
success.
>> That human motivation to pay attention
to everyone, everything is amazing.
Look, we make 85% of our vehicles in the
US, Matt. That [music] means these are
US factory workers versus even our
domestic competitors. They're some of
the biggest importers in the US. We're
not building these vehicles in South
Korea or Japan. These are American
workers beating Toyota and Hyundai and
our domestics who import their vehicles.
We beat them all.
>> And you can hear Matt's full interview
with Jim Farley at 9:00 a.m. Eastern.
That is your Bloomberg brief. John
>> and Vonnie, thank you. Thank you very
much. Up next on the program, we'll set
you up for the day ahead. Plus, we'll
catch up with Darius Dale of 42 Macro on
how the Fed could pose a headwind for
markets. Right now, no such headwind.
Equities bouncing up by8%. [music]
It's certainly better to see that core
your core PCE number came in lighter
than I would say even though it met
consensus. There were many out there
that feared it would be rounding up
closer to uh point4% which was a
legitimate risk. The question of course
is on a go forward basis what are we
going to see in terms of the inflation
data.
>> That was Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research
weighing in on the latest inflation
data. 4.1% a number [music] we haven't
seen going back some 3 years April 2023.
A small small downside surprise if you
look at something very very specific
like the headline number month overmonth
which was 04 and the estimate was 0.5
that unlocked this move in the equity
market up by 0.9% on the [music] S&P on
the NASDAQ up by 2.4 adding some more
weight to a rally that was really
triggered by a massive move from Micron
[music] in the pre-market. We'll spend
some time on that name in just a moment.
In the bond market then two-year yields
are lower off the back of that move on
inflation down by four basis points.
Two's at 4.1%. [music] Are you
encouraged by the idea that this is as
bad as it gets maybe through the summer?
The headline's going to be Apple's
rising prices. [music] That's going to
be the headline on inflation. You're
going to have to pay up for your
favorite electronic device.
>> Yeah. What's next? Right. And that's the
issue is that this isn't broadening out.
If you take a look at the details of
this particular report, Stephanie
[music] was just breaking them down uh
in the break saying that it is coming
largely from international airfares. So,
thank you World Cup and all of those
Brazilian fans coming here in first
class, but also uh just in general
because of oil prices and financial
markets. Going forward though, how much
is coming from personal electronics
[music] as well as the services sector
that have to deploy more cash in order
to buy some of those personal
electronics to fuel their businesses.
So, a lot of questions here going
forward.
>> Plenty of questions and we'll spend some
time on them in just a moment as we
count you down to the open about 40
minutes away. Let's get you some single
names to [music] Morning Movers. Yahara
has more. Hey yara.
>> Hi, John. We start with the stock of the
moment. Micron shares are adding uh to
gains up 18.3% [music]
in the pre-market after it issued a
blockbuster outlook and said that mar
and said margins [music] jumped nearly
85% last quarter. Its CEO saying that he
expects the memory shortage to continue
[music] beyond 2027. And for that
reason, as you said, we are now seeing
Apple hiking [music] prices on products
like its MacBook. And this just confirms
the bottleneck that we're seeing. And
for that reason, we are seeing the
entire [music] memory trade up this
morning with SanDisk up 16% in the
pre-market. But the broader chip
ecosystem is also up because of
Qualcomm. Shares are up 10.4% in the
pre-market after it said uh that it
expects $15 billion in annual uh AI data
[music] center revenue by 2029. It's a
shift from a company that made its name
supplying uh [music] chips for
smartphones, but now it's going all in
on the AI infrastructure boom and even
said that Meta will start using its
[music] newest data center processors.
Uh and we end on a fun one. It is day
two of Wendy's Mean Mania. Shares are up
nearly 12% in the pre-market after they
saw their best day in 5 years yesterday
with a 26% [music]
pop. And it all started with a Wall
Street bets post to save the company
that [music]
uh triggered what we're probably seeing
as a short squeeze. So shares up again
today. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thank you for the
update. The bulls getting so much good
news, aren't they? Think about it.
Micron, fantastic numbers after the
close yesterday, surging in the
pre-market. [music]
Energy rolling over. The banks buy bags,
dividend boost, passing the stress test,
all of that good stuff. Capital [music]
returns picking up. And then just a
small small decent surprise on
inflation. Tiny tiny downside surprise
on [music] PCE. Something to worry
about. Darius D of 42 macro says the Fed
may elect to tighten now so it can ease
even more later. Investors should buy
the dip, but be patient. Trees don't
grow to the moon even if there will
eventually be data centers in space.
Darius joins us now for more. Darius,
good to see you, buddy.
>> Great to see you guys.
>> Should I be worried about the outlook
for this Federal Reserve?
>> Yeah, I'm not worried. I think they're,
you know, I I said this with Tom
earlier. I think they're going to play
action pass so they can set up the run.
They have to spook the markets and and
regain some of that credibility on
inflation fighting just so that they can
create more scope to ease monetary
policy uh in the insuing year.
>> Let me just jump in. Is it a
communication exercise? Can you achieve
that through communication alone or do
you need to actually hike interest
rates?
>> Uh I I think interest rates are the
wrong tool. I think it's a a balance
sheet exercise in our opinion because we
think they need to target the
speculative excesses at the top part of
the K-shaped US economy. And so right
now the Fed's got to take reserve
management purchases to zero and
threaten the market that they may
reinstate balance sheet runoff in order
to take some of the you know the
pressure out of financial markets that's
you know leading companies like Apple to
tighten you to raise their price.
>> Is that what you're expected to see this
summer or is that too soon?
>> In our opinion based on our outlook for
what the likely you know sort of net
result of the five task forces is likely
to be. We think it'll be a dovish net
result. Not all dobish but but a dovish
net result. So in order for them to get
create scope for that, you know, kind of
create a runway for that, they're going
to have to take some steam off the boil
from an inflation fighting perspective
in the coming months.
>> How exactly uh would that be effectuated
with the balance sheet and where in the
risk asset market would you actually see
the ramifications of that?
>> I think if the S&P 500 is down 10 to 15%
and the Fed says, "Okay, enough is
enough." You take the steam off the
boil. I mean, right now we're
annualizing on on PCE core PC inflation
3.5%, super core north of 4%. Now, these
are some pretty uncomfortable numbers.
And so, ultimately, we know we're at
peak inflation. Those numbers are going
to come down. But the rate of change of
those that that that's deceleration
could be an issue for the market in the
context of what we just saw with Apple.
Fun fact, I wrote my senior thesis at
Yale about how a market-based economy
can't have a singlepayer health care
system because it would drain resources
from the other sectors of the economy
and push up inflation. That's exactly
what's happening right now with AI and
and and Apple. So right now that's part
of the reason why you're seeing
inflation where it is and you're saying
that in order to lower that inflation
you need to see some sort of significant
draw down in equity markets. How are you
positioning ahead of that or how are you
recommending positioning ahead of that?
Well, the the first step of the trade
and we think it's already on is the
source of funds trade where the
investors are using, you know, these
sort of AI providers, particularly the
hyperscalers to capitalize the AI
adopters and and and the businesses in
the economy that have been left behind,
not just in this particular market
cycle, but for, you know, 1015 years. In
our opinion, we think that trade is
durable. We talked about it last time we
were on the show. Uh we think that trade
is durable. It has multi-year legs. But
if the market's down, you know, 10 to
15% in S&P terms this summer or this
fall, nothing's going to work. I mean,
[laughter]
where do you hide out? Yeah, volatility.
>> Daryus, it's good to see you. It always
is, buddy. Thank you, buddy. Daryus Dale
there, 42 macro. Just another dimension,
another way of thinking about this
Federal Reserve. And there's a range of
views right now because a lot of people
are filling in the blanks because there
were so many in the news conference just
last week.
>> Yeah, we're all moonlighting as tax for
task force members because ultimately we
want to know the answers. That said, is
this a feature or a bug? The lack of
understanding of the of the uh of the
response mechanism for the Federal
Reserve and ultimately you got people
lining up on both sides of it. John, I
think you asked the right question. Can
you set deterrence alone just with
communication or do they actually need
to deliver on that hike to actually show
they really do care about getting
inflation closer to target?
>> There's a sense they might have to
deliver. For now though, this equity
market's enjoying what it's got. We're
up by 810 of 1% on the S&P 500. Yields
are declining. Inflation a small, very
small downside surprise. The debate
continues. Coming up tomorrow, [music]
Alexman of Barclays, Eddie Fishman of
CFR, Russ Brownback of Black Rockck,
Cameron Dawson of New Edge Wealth,
Brammo [music] and Marie. Long weekend.
Long weekend. Is that what's happening?
Good for you.
>> Lisa's working.
>> Ramo's working, just not on the show.
>> I'm taking
>> long weekend. Is that a long weekend?
[music] Rio again.
>> No, I'm not going to Rio.
[laughter]
>> Aspen for the weekend, darling.
>> Okay, maybe I will, too.
>> You're welcome to join.